--- PAGE 1 ---
LeJEPA: Provable and Scalable
Self-Supervised Learning Without the Heuristics
Randall Balestriero1,2,* Yann LeCun 3,2,*
1 Brown University 3 New York University (NYU) 2 Meta-FAIR
* Equal contribution
Learning manipulable representations of the world and its dynamics is central to AI. Joint-Embedding
Predictive Architectures (JEPAs) offer a promising blueprint, but lack of practical guidance and theory has led to
ad-hoc R&D. We present a comprehensive theory of JEPAs and instantiate it inLeJEPA, a lean, scalable, and
theoretically grounded training objective. First, we identify the isotropic Gaussian as the optimal distribution
that JEPAs’ embeddings should follow to minimize downstream prediction risk. Second, we introduce a novel
objective–Sketched Isotropic Gaussian Regularization(SIGReg)–to constrain embeddings to reach that ideal
distribution. Combining the JEPA predictive loss with SIGReg yields LeJEPA with numerous theoretical and
practical benefits: (i) single trade-off hyperparameter, (ii) linear time and memory complexity, (iii) stability across
hyper-parameters, architectures (ResNets, ViTs, ConvNets) and domains, (iv) heuristics-free, e.g., no stop-gradient,
noteacher–student,nohyper-parameterschedulers,and(v)distributedtraining-friendlyimplementationrequiring
only≈50 lines of code. Our empirical validation covers 10+ datasets, 60+ architectures, all with varying scales and
domains. As an example, using imagenet-1k for pretraining and linear evaluation with frozen backbone, LeJEPA
reaches 79% with a ViT-H/14. We hope that the simplicity and theory-friendly ecosystem offered by LeJEPA will
reestablish self-supervised pre-training as a core pillar of AI research (GitHub repo).
0 20 40 60
Test acc. (%)
100
101
Train loss (log-scale)
Spearman corr.: 94.52% (ViT/base-8 inet1k)
λ
0.04
0.08
0.12
0.16
0.20
0 14 28 43 57 72
Epoch
0
2
4
6
8Loss
0
20
40
60
Accuracy (%)
ViT-g/14, ImageNet-1K, LeJEPA
Full FT Frozen
Method 1-sh Full 1-sh Full
LeJEPA (in-domain)
ConvNeXt-V2 Nano29.4282.72 28.74 76.52
ResNet-34 24.2783.28 31.08 78.17
Frontier (transfer)
DINOv2 ViT-S/16 21.05 78.34 27.68 67.62
DINOv3 ViT-S/16 24.71 81.60 30.17 71.38
Figure 1.LeJEPA overview. Top-left:Training loss exhibits strong correlation with downstream linear probe performance on ImageNet-1k
(ViT-base), providing the first practical loss for model selection without supervised probing.Top-right:Training stability without heuristics
even on 1.8B ViT-g models, stable training loss.Bottom-left:PCA features from ImageNet-1k pretrained LeJEPA ViT-Large demonstrate clear
semantic relationships.Bottom-right:Galaxy10 in-domain results showcasing LeJEPA’s in-domain pretraining consistently outperforms
state-of-the-art frontier foundation models transfer learning (DINOv2/v3 trained on natural images) across data regimes from 1-shot to full
supervision. This demonstrates thatdomain-specific SSL beats generic transfer learning, even against massive-scale frontier models, when the
framework scales effortlessly to any domain, model, and data scale.
arXiv:2511.08544v3  [cs.LG]  14 Nov 2025

--- PAGE 2 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro| Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
1 Introduction
Learning manipulable representations of the world and
its dynamics is a long-standing question in AI, with roots
dating back centuries ago [Von Helmholtz, 1867, Tolman,
1948, Gregory, 1980, Sutton, 1991, Friston, 2010]. Across
domains, e.g., image recognition, robotics, physics, space
exploration, the unifying question ishow to learn an orga-
nized and actionable high-dimensional embedding space from
observations?Using Deep Networks–parameterized non-
linear operators𝑓𝜽–to map observations to embeddings
is a standard first piece of that puzzle [LeCun et al., 2015,
Goodfellow et al., 2016]. The second, less standardized,
piece of that puzzle ishow to train𝑓𝜽. Joint-Embedding
Predictive Architectures (JEPAs) suggest training𝑓𝜽 by
maximizing predictive agreement between the embed-
dings of semantically relatedviews[Bromley et al., 1993,
LeCun, 2022, Balestriero et al., 2023]. Views can come
in two forms: transformations or corruptions. They can
involve masking, cropping, blurring, temporal or spatial
translations, geometric or photometric transformations,
viewpoint changes, views from different sensor modali-
ties, etc. The supervised forms involve human-produced
components such as image-caption pairs, text-code pairs,
etc [Tian et al., 2020]. In any case, views are expected
to share some degree of semantic relationship to allow
the prediction task to align𝑓𝜽’s embeddings towards the
underlying knowledge present in the data.
Alas, JEPA’s prediction task admits failure modes, such
as representation collapse, where𝑓𝜽 maps all inputs to
nearly identical embeddings (complete collapse) or to a low-
dimensional subspace (dimensional collapse) [Jing et al.,
2021][Jing et al., 2021, Cosentino et al., 2022, Balestriero
and LeCun, 2022]. To mitigate such shortcut solutions,
state-of-the-art recipes rely on heuristics–stop-gradient
[Chen et al., 2020a], asymmetric view generation [Wang
etal.,2022],teacher–studentnetworkswithcarefullytuned
EMA schedules [Caron et al., 2021, Tian et al., 2021], ex-
plicit normalization and whitening layers [Ermolov et al.,
2021, Chen et al., 2021]–and a delicate balance of hyperpa-
rameters. As a result, today’s JEPA training is brittle and
most research has shifted toward scaling data [Vo et al.,
2024], models [Fan et al., 2025] and even post-training Ro-
das et al. [2025] while leaving the theoretical foundations
of JEPAs largely unexplored.
Our study proposes to break that cycle by question-
ing some of the fundamental design principles under-
pinning JEPAs. That introspection will start by asking
what are the necessary conditions that JEPAs should abide
by?Those minimal conditions will then act asaxioms
for us to design a novel and lean JEPA. We identify two
axioms: (i) solving the prediction task while (ii) enforc-
ing an isotropic Gaussian distribution of the embeddings
(Section 3). While (i) follows standard practice [Balestriero
and LeCun, 2022], we introduce in Section 4 a novel dis-
tribution matching objective–Sketched Isotropic Gaussian
Regularization(SIGReg)–toenforce(ii). TheuseofSIGReg
not only removes the need for the numerous heuristics
previously employed to prevent representation collapse,
but SIGReg also exhibits favorable scaling properties as its
memory and computational complexity is linear in dimension
and sample size. Crucially, SIGReg’s isotropic Gaussian
enforcement solves the collapsed shortcut solution and
provably minimizes the model’s expected risk over the
spaceofdownstreamtaskstobeencounteredpost-training.
TheresultingJEPAsolution–coinedLatent-EuclideanJEPA
(LeJEPA)–is introduced in Section 5. Beyond theoretical
optimality, LeJEPA offers numerous benefits such as (i)
provable statistical guarantees, (ii) removal of heuristics
such as teacher-student networks, (iii) linear memory and
computational complexity, and most importantly (iv) a
unifieddesignwithasingletrade-offparameterthatworks
outoftheboxacrossdatasets,architecturesandscales(see
Section 6). We summarize our contributions below.
Contribution 1: We prove the optimal embedding
distribution for foundation models.We establish that
the isotropic Gaussian uniquely minimizes downstream
prediction risk across broad task families. In Section 3, we
derive this result rigorously for both linear (Section 3.1)
and nonlinear probes (Section 3.2), providing the first
principled answer to what distribution𝑓𝜽’s embeddings
should follow. This theoretical result transforms JEPA
designfromheuristicexplorationtotargetedoptimization.
Contribution 2: We introduce SIGReg, a distribution
matching objective that uniquely combines provable
correctness with computational efficiency at scale.We
presentSketched Isotropic Gaussian Regularization(SIGReg),
a novel objective that enforces distributional alignment
via random projections and characteristic-function match-
ing (Section 4 and Figure 2). SIGReg provides statistical
guarantees (Sections 4.1 and 4.2) while achieving linear
complexity and bounded gradients—a combination that
existing distribution matching methods do not offer. Criti-
cally, its projection-based construction defeats the curse
of dimensionality (Section 4.3), making it both theoreti-
cally sound and practically efficient for high-dimensional
embeddings.
Contribution 3: We design LeJEPA, a statistically op-
timal JEPA that eliminates collapse by construction.By
combining JEPA’s predictive objective with SIGReg target-
ing the isotropic Gaussian, we introduceLeJEPA—Latent-
Euclidean JEPA (Section 5). LeJEPA requires only a single
hyperparameter,eliminatesrepresentationalcollapsewith-
out stop-gradients or teacher-student architectures, and
transfers across architectures and datasets without hy-
perparameter tuning. This demonstrates that principled
2

--- PAGE 3 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro |Sec 2: Background| Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
𝑓𝜽
→
Figure 2.Sketched Isotropic Gaussian Regularization (SIGReg):Given some arbitrary input data with density𝑝𝑥 with support that may or may
not lie on a manifold (left), a Deep network (DN) encoder (𝑓𝜽) produces embeddings𝒛=𝑓 𝜽(𝒙) with some distribution𝒛∼𝑝 𝑧 (middle). Our proposed
Backward Cramér-Wold Statistics (Section 4) objective pushes𝑝𝑧 to match a target distribution𝑝𝑡 by projecting the embeddings along1𝑑 directions
(middle, arrows) and enforcing that the univariate densities (right, colored lines) match the distribution of𝑝𝑡, projected along the same directions.
Any popular statistical test (provided in Section 4.2) can assess the goodness-of-fit–in practice we argue for characteristic function tests (Section 4.2).
By using SIGReg with𝑝𝑡 isotropic Gaussian (right, black lines), we introduce a lean and provably optimal (Section 3) JEPA, coined LeJEPA, free of
numerous heuristics and able to produce competitive performances (Sections 5 and 6).
theory directly yields practical simplicity.
Contribution 4: We validate LeJEPA at scale across
diverse architectures and establish in-domain pretrain-
ing as viable.Our experiments (Section 6) span ViTs,
ConvNeXts, ResNets, MaxViTs, and Swin Transformers
at scales approaching 1 billion parameters, where LeJEPA
matches or exceeds state-of-the-art methods while main-
taining training simplicity and robustness. Critically, on
domain-specific datasets (Galaxy10, Food101), LeJEPA
outperforms DINOv2-based transfer learning when pre-
traineddirectlyontargetdata. Thischallengesthetransfer
learning paradigm and demonstrates that principled SSL
can unlock effective in-domain pretraining—previously
considered impractical for small datasets.
2 Background and Notations
We start by introducing some of the notations we will be
using throughout our manuscript (Section 2.1), followed
by a review of JEPAs (Section 2.2), and existing literature
studying their design (Section 2.3).
2.1 Notations and Definitions
Data.Weareinpossessionofadatasetofshape (𝑁,𝑉,𝐷)∈
N∗3 where𝑁 is the number of samples,𝑉 is the number
of views, and𝐷 is the dimension. One entry of this
dataset is accessed via𝒙𝑛,𝑣,𝑑. Those dimensions are often
interpreted as follows: (N) is the number of independent
samples, e.g., different images or different videos, (V) is
the number ofviews, e.g., data-augmentations for images,
frames for videos, and (D) is the dimension of each𝒙𝑛,𝑣,
e.g., number of RGB pixels for images. In many cases
the ordering over𝑉 is given bytime–but in some cases,
e.g., data-augmentation of an image, ordering becomes
irrelevant. Our study does not require any particular
choice to organize one’s dataset into a(𝑁,𝑉,𝐷) tensor–
andnoneofourtheoryandimplementationassumesaparticular
design decision for that tensor. However, we will rely on
the following two properties, (independence) the samples
𝒙𝑛,𝒙 𝑛′ have been obtained independently from each other
∀𝑛≠𝑛 ′, and (identically distributed) the sampling process
was identical among𝒙𝑛,∀𝑛.
Deep Networks.Today’s AI solutions rely onDeep
(Neural) Networks(DNs), which are compositions of a large
number of parameterized linear and nonlinear operators.
We denote the DN’s mapping as𝑓𝜽 :R 𝐷→R 𝐾 with 𝐾
the dimension of the embedding space. The internals
of 𝑓𝜽 are designed by the researcher to incorporate as
much prior knowledge about the data as possible. The
details of 𝑓𝜽 are irrelevant to our study–as we will see
the proposed LeJEPA works out-of-the-box on any𝑓𝜽.
In any case, all thelearnable parametersare gathered in
the vector𝜽∈R 𝑃, with𝑃 counting the total number of
parameters. A central challenge in AI research is to design
the right architecture and training objective so that𝜽 can
be learned from gradient descent to ultimately produce a
useful system, or foundation model,𝑓𝜽.
JEPAs.A foundation model is any system, e.g., a DN,
able to solve numerous downstream tasks without requir-
inganychangeinitsinternalparameters 𝜽. Thisisinsharp
contrast with a supervised model that only considers its
training task. JEPAs have formally been introduced by
LeCun [2022] as a vehicle to produce foundation models.
The core building blocks of JEPAs rely on numerous well-
establishedtechniquessuchassiamesenetworks[Bromley
et al., 1993] and predictive coding [Helmholtz et al., 1867,
Bruner and Postman, 1949]. While the exact blueprint of
3

--- PAGE 4 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro |Sec 2: Background| Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
Definition 1: JEPA
JEP A(𝒙) ⇐⇒Enc
 
𝒙𝑛,𝑡+1,.

is predictable fromEnc
 
𝒙𝑛,𝑡,.

,∀𝑛,𝑡andEnc
 
𝒙.,.,.

is not degenerate.(1)
JEPAs varies greatly between use-cases, they all rely on
two core principles: (i) being able to predict the embed-
ding of a view𝒙𝑛,𝑣 from the embedding of another view
𝒙𝑛,𝑣′,𝑣′ ≠𝑣 , all while (ii) ensuring that the embeddings
do not become degenerate. Concretely, once a JEPA is
designed and trained, it should be able to solve numer-
ous downstream tasks in zero or few shots. The JEPA
objective function, along with some examples for𝒙, is
providedinEquation(1). Thepredictabilitycriterioncanbe
done by directly comparing the embeddings of the partial
views𝐸𝑛𝑐(𝒙 𝑛,𝑣,.)and𝐸𝑛𝑐(𝒙 𝑛,𝑣′,.)with a metric, e.g.,ℓ𝑝. In
some cases, an additional DN coinedPred, is employed
to compare𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑑(𝐸𝑛𝑐(𝒙 𝑛,𝑣,.))against𝐸𝑛𝑐(𝒙 𝑛,𝑣′,.)–which is
only justified when there exists an asymmetry between
the information content of the different views, e.g., by
conditioning the predictions on observed actions from
robotics data [Khazatsky et al., 2024].
2.2 The Need for Reliable Pretraining
The JEPA’s prediction task is designed based on a priori
knowledge of the data. Its design is often quite natural
since it is relatively intuitive to form𝒙 so that its views
sharetherelevantinformationcontentonehopetocapture.
On the other hand, the design of the “anti-collapse” crite-
rion is much closer to a game of Whac-A-Mole. Today’s
designs rely on many different under-specified safeguards
which are carefully combined in the hope that degener-
ate shortcut solutions are avoided during training. Such
mechanisms include (i) feature whitening [Ermolov et al.,
2021, Bardes et al., 2021], (ii) negative samples [Chen
et al., 2020a, He et al., 2020], and (iii) asymmetric views
and teacher-student networks with stop-gradient [Caron
et al., 2021, Assran et al., 2023]. Those mechanisms all
suffer from at least two of the following limitations: (i)
under-specification, i.e., the criteria can be minimized
while embeddings are in a degenerate configuration, (ii)
quadratic time and memory complexity with mini-batch
size and/or embedding dimension, (iii) sensitivity to data
distribution, hyperparameters, architecture, and (iv) lack
of theoretical understanding and guarantees.
2.3 The Need for Actionable Theory
For decades, the two major solutions for AI were super-
vised learning [LeCun et al., 2015] and learning by recon-
struction [Rumelhart et al., 1986]–sometimes combined
together, e.g., for semi-supervised learning [Kingma et al.,
2014]. In supervised learning, the labels both ensure that
semantically similar samples are close to each other in em-
bedding space while preventing complete representation
collapse. Inparticular,itispossibletomeasuretheamount
ofcollapseinsupervisedlearningasafunctionofthenum-
ber of classes [Papyan et al., 2020]. The reconstruction
objective is similarly well suited to prevent representation
collapse as the original input must be recovered from the
embeddings, i.e., the embeddings must be as informative
abouttheinputaspossible–uptosomeoptionaldenoising
tasks that users can setup as part of the training [Vincent
et al., 2010].
Because supervised and reconstruction-based learning
have been widely studied for decades, there exists a large
body of work to explain and inform practical designs–as
well as studying their limitations in producing foundation
models [Balestriero and LeCun, 2024, Van Assel et al.,
2025]. This is not the case for the more recent JEPAs
where empirical advances quickly outpace anyone hoping
to delve into their inner workings. This dynamic led the
community to focus on post-hoc theoretical justification
of already found solutions [Liu et al., 2021, Shwartz Ziv
4

--- PAGE 5 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background |Sec 3: Why Gaussian?| Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
and LeCun, 2024, Shwartz-Ziv et al., 2022, Zhang et al.,
2023]. In most cases, those studies involve theMutual
Information (MI)[Shannon, 1948, Cover, 1999] whose dif-
ferentboundsrecoverestablishedmethods[Gutmannand
Hyvärinen, 2010, Ma and Collins, 2018, Oord et al., 2018,
Pooleetal.,2019,Hjelmetal.,2018,McAllesterandStratos,
2020]. Because existing studies focus on explaining and
interpreting already developed JEPAs, too little principled
guidance and innovation has been brought forward. In-
stead, most of the recent empirical advances take the form
ofcollectinglargerdataset,scalinguppre-existingtraining
recipes [Goyal et al., 2019, Chen et al., 2020b, Oquab et al.,
2023, Fan et al., 2025], and deriving novel data curation
processes [Vo et al., 2024, Kerdreux et al., 2025].
Incontrast, ourgoalinthefollowingSections3to5will
betoderiveanovelJEPAsolutionfromfirstprinciples,i.e.,
whose design relies on proved necessary conditions for
optimality, and with a pretraining recipe that can finally
reconcileexploratoryresearch,scalability,andstate-of-the-
art performances.
3 Latent Euclidean: Embeddings
Should be Isotropic Gaussian
We address a fundamental question:which distribution
should Enc(𝒙) follow to minimize empirical risk on any down-
stream task?We prove that the isotropic Gaussian is the
unique optimal distribution for both linear (Section 3.1)
and nonlinear probing (Section 3.2), with geometric in-
tuition provided in Section 3.3. This theoretical result
establishes the necessary design principle for our JEPA;
Section 4 then provides the practical implementation to
achieve it.
3.1 Linear Probing
We begin by identifying the optimal distribution for𝑓𝜽’s
embeddings by analyzing linear probes–one of the most
popular methods for frozen encoder evaluation. Specif-
ically, we ask:which distribution for𝑓𝜽(𝒙) would be most
favorable for solving arbitrary downstream tasks, i.e., for any
realization of targets𝒚?
Denote as𝒁∈R 𝑁×𝐾 the matrix of𝑁 embeddings, each
𝐾-dimensional, from𝑓𝜽(𝒙𝑛). Theunknowncorresponding
labelsaredenotedas 𝒚∈R 𝑁. Withoutlossofgenerality,we
consider univariate targets; the following analysis extends
to multivariate targets. The linear probe minimizes the
following least square problem [Bishop and Nasrabadi,
2006]
ˆ𝛽=arg min
𝛽∈R𝐾
∥𝒚−𝒁𝛽∥ 2
2+𝜆∥𝛽∥ 2
2,(OLS)
where ˆ𝛽 is the optimal probe parameters, and𝜆≥0
is an hyperparameter controlling the Tikhonov regular-
izer strength [Bishop, 1995, Golub et al., 1999]. Despite
not knowing 𝒚, it is possible to describe the bias and
variance of the estimatorˆ𝛽 as a function of the distri-
bution of 𝒁. Consider two embeddings with identical
columnspans 𝒁aniso,𝒁 iso. 𝒁aniso’scovariancematrixeigen-
values are given by{𝜆𝑘}𝐾
𝑘=1 with at least two distinct
values, while𝒁iso’s covariance matrix eigenvalues are all
equalto 1
𝐾
˝𝐾
𝑘=1𝜆𝑘. Hence,thetwocandidateembeddings
𝒁aniso,𝒁 iso capture the same intrinsic features and have
same energy, but different geometries.
Lemma 1: Anisotropy amplifies bias
Whenever𝜆𝐾 > 𝜆1, there always exists a downstream task
(𝒚) for which𝒁aniso produces a higher bias estimator than
𝒁iso for𝜆 >0. (Proof in Section B.1.)
Lemma 2: Anisotropy amplifies variance
With𝜆=0 ,thetotalvarianceof ˆ𝛽(OLS) isminimizedfor 𝒁iso
with tr(Var(ˆ𝜷aniso))>tr(Var( ˆ𝜷iso)). (Proof in Section B.2.)
From the above lemmas. 1 and 2 we obtain that the
distribution of features must be isotropic. We now move
to nonlinear probing where the standard Gaussian will
emerge as the unique optimum.
3.2 Nonlinear Probing
To allow for more flexible evaluation of the pretrained
encoder 𝑓𝜽, it has become increasingly common to work
with a nonlinear probe. We analyze two widely-used
nonlinearmethods: radius-basedk-NN[Taunketal.,2019,
SunandHuang,2010,Zhangetal.,2017,AbuAlfeilatetal.,
2019] for its simplicity and kernel methods [Nadaraya,
1964, Watson, 1964] for their theoretical tractability.
AsinSection3.1,weaskourselveswhichdistributionof
embeddings would be preferable for a foundation model.
We first define our prediction function. The training data
consists of the𝑁 embeddings along with their training
labels{(𝒛𝑛,𝒚𝑛)}𝑁
𝑛=1. The prediction, using radius-based
k-NN for a query vector𝒒is formed as
b𝒚(𝒒):= 1
|𝒩𝑟0(𝒒)|
Õ
𝑛∈𝒩𝑟0(𝒒)
𝒚𝑛,(kNN)
where𝒩𝑟0(𝒒)={𝑛:∥𝒛 𝑛−𝒒∥≤𝑟 0}. The specific choice
of radius𝑟0 controls how many neighbors predictions are
averaged to form the query’s prediction. The kernel’s
prediction at a query𝒒∈R𝐾 is given by
b𝒚(𝒒)≜
˝𝑁
𝑛=1𝐾ℎ(𝒒−𝒛 𝑛)𝒚𝑛
˝𝑁
𝑛=1𝐾ℎ(𝒒−𝒛 𝑛)
.(Kernel)
WesearchoveralldistributionsofZsubjecttoafixedto-
talvarianceconstraint,e.g., Tr(Cov(𝒁))=𝜅 1or∥Cov(𝒁)∥𝐹 =
𝜅2. The specific value of𝜅 does not affect the optimal dis-
5

--- PAGE 6 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? |Sec 4: SIGReg| Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
□4 □2 0 2 4
x1
□4
□2
0
2
4
x2
Isotropic, Var( ˆβ) = 0.0056
True boundary
Learned boundaries
□4 □2 0 2 4
x1
Condition #: 20
Anisotropic, Var( ˆβ) = 0.0801
True boundary
Learned boundaries
Figure 3.Illustration of lemma. 2 showcasing how anisotropic (right)
embeddings lead to higher variance estimator compared to isotropic
embeddings (left). We sample100 training points for the2-class clas-
sification task and fit a logistic regression–repeating the process over
numerous training set sample. Each sampling results in a decision
boundary (purple).
tribution shape. Following the same type of derivations
as done in the linear regime–with the exception of some
additional regularity conditions–we are able to precisely
identify the isotropic Gaussian as the unique optimum to
minimize bias as formalized below.
Theorem 1: isotropic Gaussian Optimality
The integrated square bias (ISB) over query points is given by
ISB𝑘-NN =
𝑟4
0
(𝐾+2) 2𝜏2
𝑔𝐽(𝑝)+𝑂(𝑟 4
0),(k-NN)
ISBkernel≤
ℎ2𝜇2(𝐾)
2
 2
2𝐵2+8𝐿 2𝐽(𝑝)

+𝑜(ℎ 4),(kernel)
and among distributions with a scalar-based covariance con-
straint, the isotropic Gaussian is the unique minimizer of the
integrated square bias. (Proof in Sections B.4 and B.7.)
Numerous additional details and discussions on the
regularity assumptions we employed are provided in Sec-
tion A. Together, these results establish the isotropic Gaus-
sian distribution as the optimal design to minimize the
worst-case risk of a foundation model across downstream
tasks.
3.3 Geometric and Practical Insights
We now empirically validate that the isotropic Gaussian is
optimal when no information about downstream tasks is
available. We focus on linear probing (Section 3.1), where
all considered distributions have the same total variance.
When employing a linear probe, an anisotropic distri-
bution increases both bias (with Tikhonov regularization)
and variance. Examining bias first (lemma. 1), we present
in Figure 18 visualizations for both continuous regres-
sion and discrete classification tasks. We observe that
the cosine similarity between estimated and ground-truth
parameters equals 1 only for isotropic distributions, de-
grading for anisotropic cases regardless of sample size or
regularization strength. Regarding variance (lemma. 2),
we show in Figure 3 that learned parameters vary sig-
nificantly more across training sets when the covariance
is anisotropic (right) compared to isotropic (left)—even
when using logistic regression instead of OLS. Figure 17
further illustrates this effect, showing the distribution of
learned 𝛽 parameters across different training samples for
both cases. The anisotropic distribution clearly produces
higher-variance estimators.
These theoretical and empirical results establish our
design principle for LeJEPA:embeddings𝑓𝜽(𝒙) should follow
an isotropic Gaussian distribution to minimize worst-case risk
across downstream tasks encountered post-training. Section 4
introduces a novel regularizer to achieve this distribution.
4 SIGReg: Reliable Isotropic
Gaussian Regularization in
High-Dimension
Having established the isotropic Gaussian as the optimal
embedding distribution (Section 3), we now introduce
Sketched Isotropic Gaussian Regularization(SIGReg)–a dis-
tribution matching objective that is simultaneously (i)
differentiable, (ii)scalable, (iii)provable, and (iv)interpretable.
SIGReg builds on three key innovations. First, we formu-
latedistributionmatchingasastatisticaltestunderthenull
hypothesis𝑃𝜽 =𝑄 (Section4.1). Second,weidentifyatest
that guarantees bounded gradients and curvature while
maintaining linear complexity and efficient multi-GPU
scaling (Section 4.2). Third, SIGReg bypasses the curse of
dimensionality, eliminating collapsed shortcut solutions
entirely (Section 4.3).
4.1 Hypothesis Testing as a Judge
Asking for𝑓𝜽(𝒙)’s distribution𝑃𝜽 to match a target distri-
bution𝑄 is typically done by creating various measures
of distance or divergence, and estimating them in high-
dimension. Weproposeadifferentstartingpointgrounded
in statistics. Consider the hypothesis testing framework
[Fisher, 1928, Neyman and Pearson, 1933] given by
𝐻0 :𝑃 𝜽 =𝑄vs.𝐻 1 :𝑃 𝜽 ≠𝑄,(2)
with 𝐻0 being referred to as thenull hypothesis. That is,
we are asking in Equation (2) if there is enough empiri-
cal evidence to reject the null. To answer that question,
one (i) employs atest-statistic, i.e., a single scalar value
summarizing the evidence from the empirical samples, (ii)
determines a critical value𝜏𝛼 for the test-statistic based on
theprobability 𝛼ofTypeIerror,i.e.,ofmistakenlyrejecting
a true null hypothesis, (iii) compares the test-statistic to
6

--- PAGE 7 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? |Sec 4: SIGReg| Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
the critical value𝜏𝛼; if the test-statistic exceeds𝜏𝛼, reject
the null hypothesis. If the null is not rejected, we can only
claim thatthere is not sufficient empirical evidence against
𝑃𝜽 =𝑄.
As it stands, Equation (2) remains impractical in large
dimensionasexistingtestshaveatleastquadraticcomplex-
itywiththenumberofsamplesconsidered(moredetailsin
Section F). We thus propose to derive a sketching strategy
by decomposing Equation (2) into simpler univariate tests.
Denoting the push-forward distributions𝑃(𝒂)
𝜽 ≜(𝒂 ⊤)#𝑃𝜽
and𝑄(𝒂) ≜(𝒂 ⊤)#𝑄, we can define the followingdirectional
univariate test
𝐻0(𝒂):𝑃 (𝒂)
𝜽 =𝑄(𝒂) vs.𝐻 1(𝒂):𝑃 (𝒂)
𝜽 ≠𝑄(𝒂),(3)
for a given directional unit-norm vector𝒂∈𝒮 𝐾−1. The
correspondingdirectional test-statisticof Equation (3) is
computed as𝑇({𝒂⊤𝑓𝜽(𝒙𝑛)}𝑁
𝑛=1). Examples of tests𝑇 will
beprovidedinthelaterSection4.2. Repeatingthatprocess
over a set of𝑀 directions A ≜{𝒂 1,...,𝒂 𝑀} and aggre-
gating the individual values lead to the followingglobal
test-statistic
𝑇A({𝑓 𝜽(𝒙𝑛)}𝑁
𝑛=1)≜max
𝒂∈A
𝑇({𝒂⊤𝑓𝜽(𝒙𝑛)}𝑁
𝑛=1).(4)
We now provide a formal statement asserting the consis-
tency of Equation (4) to test the original multivariate null
hypothesis from Equation (2). Our result leverages the
well-known union-intersection principle [Roy, 1953], and
a slightly modified Cramér-Wold theorem. We denote by
𝑑
=equality in distribution.
Lemma 3: Hyperspherical Cramér-Wold
Let𝑋,𝑌beR 𝑑-valued random vectors, then
⟨𝒖,𝑋⟩ 𝑑=⟨𝒖,𝑌⟩,∀𝒖∈S 𝑑−1 ⇐⇒𝑋 𝑑=𝑌.
Convergencein distributionalso holds. (Proof inSection B.8.)
Theorem 2: Sufficiency of directional tests
Equation (4) is a valid statistical test for Equation (3) as
𝑃=𝑄=⇒lim sup
𝑛→∞
Pr

𝑇A({𝑓 𝜽(𝒙𝑛)}𝑁
𝑛=1)≥𝜏 𝛼

≤𝛼,(level)
𝑃≠𝑄=⇒lim sup
𝑛→∞
Pr

𝑇A({𝑓 𝜽(𝒙𝑛)}𝑁
𝑛=1)≥𝜏 𝛼

=1,(power)
(Proof in Section B.9.)
The assumptions required in the proof of thm. 2 hold
for classical consistent univariate tests𝑇 such as the ones
presented in the following Section 4.2.
Figure 4.Examples of distributions living on the surface of the sphere
with varying Sobolev smoothness coefficients𝛼. As per thm. 5, the
greater 𝛼 is, the more global will be the impact of SIGReg for a given
number of directions𝑀. Practically, this represents the distribution of
the encoder’s output. Because the target density (isotropic Gaussian) is
smooth, the𝛼 coeffcients of the embedding will quickly grow hereby
making SIGReg (def. 2) immune to the curse of dimensionality.
4.2 SIGReg: Sketching the Epps-Pulley
Test is Stable and Scalable
Ourproposedregularizer–coinedSketchedIsotropicGaus-
sian Regularization (SIGReg)–follows directly from thm. 2
using any statistical test𝑇 targeted towards the isotropic
Gaussian, illustrated in Figures 2 and 5, and formalized
below.
Definition 2: SIGReg (PyTorch code in algorithm 1)
SIGRegsketchesastatisticaltest 𝑇 towardsisotropicGaussian
SIGReg𝑇(A,{𝑓 𝜽(𝒙𝑛)}𝑁
𝑛=1)≜ 1
|A|
Õ
𝒂∈A
𝑇({𝒂⊤𝑓𝜽(𝒙𝑛)}𝑁
𝑛=1),
(SIGReg)
where we recommend the Epps-Pulley test (Section 4.2.3) for
𝑇.
We replace the maximum over𝒂∈A in thm. 2 by
an average in(SIGReg)to avoid sparse gradient over the
directions in A. We now delve on the choice of𝑇 for
which we compare well-known candidate tests in the field
of statistics that are categorized into (i) moment based
(Section 4.2.1), (ii) CDF based (Section 4.2.2), and (iii) CF
based (Section 4.2.3) statistics–ultimately justifying our
choice of the Epps-Pulley statistic.
4.2.1 Moments are Unstable and Insufficient
Thefirstfamilyofstatisticsweconsideraremoment-based.
Taking the standard Gaussian as an instanciation for the
moments, we can define the Jarque-Bera [Jarque and Bera,
1980] test that compares the third and fourth moments,
7

--- PAGE 8 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? |Sec 4: SIGReg| Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
□2 0 2
x1 (blue) — x2 (red)
0
50
100
150Count
□2 0 2
x1
□2
0
2
x2
□5 0
⟨x, ai⟩
i:0
i:1
i:2
i:3
i:4
i:5
i:6
i:7
i:8
i:9p(⟨x, ai⟩)
i:0 i:1 i:2 i:3 i:4 i:5 i:6 i:7 i:8 i:9
0.2
0.6
1.0𝓁1 and 𝓁2
vcreg ext jarque beta watson cramer von mises anderson darling epps pulley
Figure 5.Constructed data density with “X” distribution whose marginals are standard Gaussian and whose covariance is identity
(left densities). Applying𝑀=10 projections on the half circle directions produces10 univariate distributions that can be compared
against a standard Gaussian (left) using any preferred statistic from Section 4.2. The appropriate direction is able to capture the
degenerate distribution of the data hereby creating a spike in the statistic value.
i.e., skewness and kurtosis, as
JB(𝒖)≜ 𝑁
6
'›
«
skew(𝒖)2+
 
dkurt(𝒖)−3
2
! 2
“ﬁ
‹
,(Jarque-Bera)
where skew is the skewness computed from the data as
1
𝑛
˝𝑛
𝑖=1(𝑥𝑖−ˆ𝜇)
3
ˆ𝜎3 and dkurtisthekurtosis
1
𝑛
˝𝑛
𝑖=1(𝑥𝑖−ˆ𝜇)
4
ˆ𝜎4 . Typically,
the (Jarque-Bera)test is used to see if a density follows a
Gaussian distribution of any mean and variance–hence it
only looks at moments 3 and 4. In our case we aim for a
standard Gaussian test and thus add the usual statistics
on the first two moments, leading to the extended test
EJB(𝒖)≜ 𝑁ˆ𝜇(𝒖)2
ˆ𝜎(𝒖) 2 +(𝑁−1)
 ˆ𝜎(𝒖) 2−1
 2
2 +JB(𝒖).
(Extended Jarque-Bera)
The (Extended Jarque-Bera)acts as a moment matching
problemoverthefirstfourmoments. Suchmomentmatch-
ing methods have proven powerful not only for statistical
tests but also as mean to learn parametric and nonpara-
metric models of data.
TheStabilityandIdentifiabilityConundrum.Wenow
explain why moment-based tests–albeit powerful–will
not be suited for LeJEPA. The𝑘𝑡ℎ of a distribution𝑃
is denoted as𝑚𝑘(𝑃). The first observation is that well-
behaved distributions abiding the Carleman’s condition˝∞
𝑘=1𝑚2𝑘(𝑄)−1/(2𝑘) =∞ [Carleman,1926],suchastheGaus-
sian, or for distributions with finite interval [Hausdorff,
1923]areuniquelydeterminedbytheirmoments. However,
using a finite number of moments creates the following
non-identifiabilityissuewhichwell-knowninstatisticsand
often used as a motivation to useallmoments [Lehmann
and Romano, 2005].
Theorem 3: Insufficiency of K Moments
Minimizing the following objective with𝑐𝑘 >0,∀𝑘
𝐾Õ
𝑘=1
𝑐𝑘

𝑚𝑘

𝑃(𝒂)
𝜽

−𝑚 𝑘

𝑄(𝒂)
 2
,
forfinite 𝐾doesnotimply 𝑃(𝒂)
𝜽 =𝑄(𝒂). (ProofinSectionB.11.)
Hence thm. 3 prescribes us with the guideline to em-
ploy as large𝐾 as possible to remove collapsed shortcut
solution by making sure our distribution matching is ac-
curate. Yet, doing so leads to unstable gradient-based
training due to the gradient norm scaling as𝑂(𝑘), and
the variance of Monte Carlo gradient estimates growing
as𝑂(𝑘 2𝑚2(𝑘−1)) for the𝑘-th moment since
∇𝜃𝑚𝑘(𝑃(𝒂)
𝜽 )
=
∥E

𝑘(𝒂⊤𝑓𝜽(𝒙))𝑘−1 𝒂⊤𝐽𝑓𝜽(𝒙)

∥, with𝐽𝑓𝜽(𝒙)∈R 𝐾×𝑃 the Jaco-
bianmatrix–herebycreatinganimpracticalsituationwhere
training stability and identifiability can not be achieved
simultaneously.
4.2.2 Cumulative Density Functions are Impractical
ThesecondfamilyoftestsactsupontheCDF.Becausethose
tests require sorting, let’s denote the𝑘th order-statistics of
𝑁 samplesby 𝑥𝑘:𝑁. Twohighlystandardtestsarequadratic
EmpiricalDensityFunctionstatisticswithdifferentweight-
ingknownasCramér-vonMises[Cramér,1928,VonMises,
1981]andAndersonDarling[AndersonandDarling,1952],
and given by
𝑇𝑤 =𝑁
∫ ∞
−∞
(𝐹𝑁(𝑥)−𝐹(𝑥) )2𝑤(𝑥)𝑑𝐹(𝑥)
𝑤(𝑥)=1,(Cramér-von Mises)
𝑤(𝑥)=[𝐹(𝑥)(1−𝐹(𝑥))] −1,(Anderson-Darling)
where𝑤(𝑥) is a weighting function. Adding the𝑈 2 statis-
tics on top of Equation (Cramér-von Mises) recovers the
8

--- PAGE 9 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? |Sec 4: SIGReg| Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
0 5
dim 1
□2
0
2
4
dim 2
original data
0 5
dim 1
VCReg
0 5
dim 1
ExtendedJarqueBera
0 5
dim 1
CramerVonMises
0 5
dim 1
Watson
0 5
dim 1
AndersonDarling
0 5
dim 1
EppsPulley
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 3
□4
□2
0
2
4
dim 4
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 3
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 3
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 3
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 3
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 3
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 3
Figure 6.𝑁=100 samples are drawn from a1024-dimensional standard Gaussian, and the first2 coordinates are altered to produce
the “X” distribution from Figure 5 (left-most column). For each statistic (all other columns), we perform gradient descent on the
samples to minimize their value, at each iteration step with sample𝑀=10 random directions to evaluate SIGReg (recall def. 2). We
obtain that albeit this is a high-dimensional distribution with limited number of samples, SIGReg is able to capture the degenerate
subspace and adapt the data accordingly to match an isotropic Gaussian distribution. Additional figures with varying dimensions
and number of 1d projections are provided in Figure 16.
Watson test [Watson, 1961]
𝑈 2=𝑇𝑤−𝑁

¯𝐹− 1
2
 2
.(Watson)
We do not consider the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test [Kol-
mogorov, 1933] as it employs theℓ∞-norm instead of the
ℓ2-norm hereby producing sparse gradients. Another
common test is the Shapiro-Wilk test [Shapiro and Wilk,
1965] which we found to be unstable in practice–details
are provided in Section E.
Lack of Scalability and Differentiability.CDF-based
tests require sorting that have been highly optimized, e.g.,
with the𝒪(𝑁log(𝑁)) Quicksort algorithm [Hoare, 1962]
butthatnonethelessbreakstheembarrassinglyparallelna-
ture of SGD–especially on multi-GPU [Tanasic et al., 2013,
Maltenberger et al., 2022] due to synchronization require-
ments. Moreover, these tests involve non-differentiable
operations (sorting and order statistics), making them
unsuitable for gradient-based optimization without re-
laxations [Cuturi et al., 2019, Grover et al., 2019, Petersen
etal.,2022]. Whilethereexistsintricatesketchingsolutions
[Dunning and Ertl, 2019, Masson et al., 2019, Dunning,
2021], each of those solutions introduce numerous addi-
tionalhyper-parameters–goingagainstourfirstmotivation
for LeJEPA.
4.2.3 Characteristic Functions are Stable, Scalable
and Identifiable
The third family of tests is concerned with Empirical Char-
acteristic Functions (ECF) which are the Fourier transform
of the density function. The Epps–Pulley test [Epps and
Pulley, 1983] is one of the most popular test and simply
compares in weightedℓ2-norm the ECF of the data against
a target CF
𝐸𝑃=𝑁
∫ ∞
−∞
ˆ𝜙𝑋(𝑡)−𝜙(𝑡)
2
𝑤(𝑡)𝑑𝑡.(Epps–Pulley)
The first crucial observation is that the ECF being defined
asˆ𝜙𝑋(𝑡)= 1
𝑛
˝𝑛
𝑗=1𝑒𝑖𝑡𝑋𝑗 isnaturallydifferentiableandeasily
computed in distributed settings via efficientall_reduce
operations, as the ECF is a simple average of complex
exponentials. The weight function is typically Gaussian,
such as𝑤(𝑡)=𝑒 −𝑡2/𝜎2
with𝜎commonly set to1.
Other tests, e.g., based on the Entropy [Székely and
Rizzo, 2005] are not considered here as they require nu-
merous additional design choices for the univariate En-
tropyestimation[Silverman,2018,Beirlantetal.,1997],e.g.,
using kernels [Joe, 1989], or M-estimators [Miller, 2003].
Epps-Pulley has bounded loss, gradient and curva-
ture.We now consider the remaining two families of tests:
moment-based and CF-based. First, recall that moments
are polynomial in the data and with extreme growth rate
9

--- PAGE 10 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? |Sec 4: SIGReg| Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
Algorithm 1.SIGReg with Epps-Pulley statistic with DDP support and
𝒪(𝑁) time and memory complexity. x is a (N, K) tensor, num_slices is
|A| in def. 2, ‘global_step‘ is used for sync. sampling across GPUs and
can be omited for single-GPU training. An optimized implementation
with caching isalso providedin our official codebase, computation times
provided in Table 6.
defSIGReg ( x , g l o b a l _ s t e p , num_slices =256) :
# s l i c e sampling−−synced across d e v i c e s−−
dev =dict( d e v i c e =x . d e v i c e )
g = t o r c h . Generator (∗ ∗dev )
g . manual_seed ( g l o b a l _ s t e p )
p r o j _ s h a p e = ( x . s i z e ( 1 ) , num_slices )
A = t o r c h . randn ( proj_shape , g e n e r a t o r =g ,∗∗dev )
A / = A . norm ( p =2 , dim =0)
#−−Epps−P u l l e y s t a t . see Sec . 4 . 3 f o r a l t .−−
# i n t e g r a t i o n p o i n t s
t = t o r c h . l i n s p a c e (−5 , 5 , 17 ,∗∗dev )
# t h e o r e t i c a l CF f o r N( 0 , 1 ) and Gauss . window
exp_f = t o r c h . exp (−0 . 5∗t∗ ∗2 )
# e m p i r i c a l CF−−g at h e r ed across d e v i c e s−−
x _ t = ( x @ A ) . unsqueeze ( 2 )∗t# (N, M, T )
e c f = ( 1 j∗x _ t ) . exp ( ) . mean ( 0 )
e c f = a l l _ r e d u c e ( ecf , op= "AVG" )
# weighted L2 d i s t a n c e
e r r = ( e c f−exp_f ) .abs( ) . square ( ) . mul ( exp_f )
N = x . s i z e ( 0 )∗w o r l d _ s i z e
T = t o r c h . t r a p z ( e r r , t , dim =1)∗N
returnT
for higher moment–assuming they even exist. Even for
well-behaved distributions, raising values to a power of
𝑘 can quickly lead to exploding gradients. This comes in
sharpcontrastwiththeECFwhichisalwaysboundedand
with bounded gradients for any input distribution for the
projected samples𝑧𝑖 =𝒂⊤𝑓𝜃(𝒙𝑛),𝑛=1,...,𝑁.
Theorem 4: Stability of Epps-Pulley Test
(Epps–Pulley) satisfies for samples𝑧1,...,𝑧 𝑁

𝜕𝐸𝑃(a)
𝜕𝑧𝑖
≤ 4𝜎2
𝑁 ,

𝜕2𝐸𝑃(a)
𝜕𝑧 2
𝑖
≤ 𝐶√𝜋𝜎3
2𝑁 ,
with constant𝐶, and bandwidth𝜎. (Proof in Section B.12.)
By the chain rule, thm. 4 directly gives∥∇𝜃𝐸𝑃(a)∥≤
4𝜎2
𝑁
˝𝑁
𝑖=1∥a⊤∇𝜃𝑓𝜃(x𝑖)∥,providingstablegradients. Thelim-
itations of moment-based and CDF-based tests coupled
with thm. 4 justifies our choice of the(Epps–Pulley): (i)
DDP-friendly and scalable, (ii) uniformly bounded gradi-
ents and curvature regardless of input distribution, and
(iii) hyper-parameter free implementation. Lastly, we
highlight thatour implementation has a linear memory and
computational complexity of𝒪(𝑁), with𝑁 the minibatch size.
The implementation of SIGReg using that statistical test is
provided in algorithm 1, along with computation times of
the forward-backward pass in Table 6.
As a last step before introducing LeJEPA, we ought to
102 103
M (log-scale)
0
500
1000
1500Ea
[
T ({a⊤fθ(xn)}N
n=1)
]
 β = □2.79
R2 = 0.87
β = □285.91
R2 = 0.96
random
ﬁxed
Figure 7.Expected directional statistic at the end of training (y-axis)
for varying𝑀 (number of directions used at each training step,x-axis).
The 𝑀 directions are either resampled (green) or kept fixed (blue) at
each training step. While for fixed directions we benefit from thm. 5
bound where increasing𝑀 reduces the overall expected loss, being able
to resample at every step provides significant coverage boost for free.
study the requirements on the number of directions (|A|)
for (2) to be effective in high-dimension.
4.3 How SIGReg Beats the Curse of
Dimensionality
Thislastsectionseekstocharacterizehowmanyslicesin A
one must sample for(SIGReg)to be an effective statistical
test. ThatdesigniscrucialifwehopeforLeJEPAtosuccess-
fully converge towards isotropic Gaussian embeddings.
Smoothness Beats the Curse of Dimensionality
Our first argument arguing for a favorable scaling of|A|
withtheembeddingdimension 𝐾reliesonthesmoothness
of 𝑃𝜽 as measured by its Sobolev regularity𝛼 [Adams
and Fournier, 2003]. We formalize below a bound on
the directional test from Equation (3) over all possible
directions 𝒂 when the test statistic is minimized over
|A|=𝑀 directions. While we provide bounds on the
expected discrepancy over random directions𝒂 when the
EPtestissatisfied(equalszero)onafinitesetofdirections,
the provided proof includes the case of moment-based
and CDF-based tests as well.
10

--- PAGE 11 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg |Sec 5: LeJEPA| Sec 6: Experiments
Theorem 5: Unified Error Bounds
Let𝑝𝜽∈𝐻 𝛼(R𝐾), 𝒂∼𝒰(𝒮 𝐾−1), and(Epps–Pulley)=0 , i.e.,
𝑃(a)
𝜃 =𝑄(a),∀𝒂∈A, then
E𝒂
∫
R
𝜑𝑎(𝑡)−𝜑 𝒩(𝑡)
2𝑑𝑡

≤𝐶(𝐾,𝛼)|A| −2𝛼/(𝐾−1)
×
∫ ∞
0
𝜑·(𝑟)−𝜑 𝒩(𝑟)
2
𝐻𝛼(𝒮𝐾−1)𝑑𝑟,
(Proof in Section B.10.)
As|A|→∞ , the bound decays as|A|−2𝛼/(𝐾−1), showing
that|A|=𝑂(𝐾) directions suffice for𝜖-approximation
when 𝛼 is large. Some examples of embedding densities
with varying𝛼 are provided in Figure 4. The following
statementcharacterizeshowthe 𝑀 directionsactuallycon-
strain the entire space as a function of𝛼. The constant
𝐶(𝐾,𝛼)=
22𝛼𝜋(𝐾−1)/2Γ(𝛼+𝐾−1
2)
(𝐾−1)Γ(𝛼)Γ(𝐾−1
2) is visualized in Figure 15 (left)
depicting how𝛼 and|A| interact. In words, we obtain
that thanks to the natural smoothness of DN–either stem-
ming from the architecture or the implicit and explicit
regularizers used during training–applying SIGReg on|A|
directions can be sufficient to tightly constrain the entire
space. We note that considering the worst case over𝒂 or
using low-discrepancy sequences for𝒂 does not impact
the asymptotic bounds, details provided in Section D.
SGD Beats the Curse of Dimensionality
Our second argument leverages the iterative nature of
DN training. Although we may use only|A| to be a few
hundreds, the cumulative number of sampled directions
grows linearly with training time. This resampling effect
(illustratedinFigure7, bottom)enablesrapidconvergence.
Even small|A|achieves tight distributional matching com-
pared to keeping the setAfixed throughout minibatches
(recall thm. 5). Our experiments show that even with|A|
as low as16 can easily outperform a fixed set with|A| of
order of thousands thanks to the compounding effect of
resampling at each minibatch.
Empirical Validation on Synthetic Data
We conclude this section with a controlled experiment
applying (SIGReg) with gradient-based training to pro-
duce isotropic embeddings. In this setup, we directly
consider embeddings𝒁 which we will differentiate and
optimized to minimize(SIGReg). By directly optimizing
the embeddings we are able to observe the impact of the
loss without any possible constraint and regularization
that would come from the architecture. We sample𝑁 i.i.d.
samples 𝒙𝑛 in a𝐷-dimensional space. This sampling is
based on an isotropic Gaussian distribution–but the first
Algorithm 2.LeJEPA implementation–works out-of-the-box on any
dataset, with DDP, with any backbone, e.g., torchvision or timm. For
non-ViT architectures (e.g., ResNet), set global_views = all_views. We
use bs for the minibatch size, SIGReg is from algorithm 1.
defLeJEPA ( g l o b a l _ v i e w s , a l l _ v i e w s , lambd ) :
" " " g l o b a l _ v i e w s and a l l _ v i e w s are l i s t s o f
t e n s o r s , lambd i s a s c a l a r " " "
# embedding o f g l o b a l views
g_emb = f o r w a r d ( t o r c h . c a t ( g l o b _ v i e w s ) )
# embedding o f l o c a l views
# i f r e s n e t : s k i p w i t h a_emb=g_emb
a_emb = f o r w a r d ( t o r c h . c a t ( a l l _ v i e w s ) )
# LeJEPA l o s s
c e n t e r s = g_emb . view (−1 , bs , K ) . mean ( 0 )
a_emb = a_emb . view (−1 , bs , K )
sim = ( c e n t e r s−a_emb ) . square ( ) . mean ( )
s i g r e g = mean ( SIGReg ( emb , g l o b a l _ s t e p )foremb
ina_emb )
return(1−lambd )∗sim + lambd∗s i g r e g
two dimensions are again set to the adversarial “X” shape.
That is, among the𝐷 dimensions, only two must be trans-
formed as all the other ones already obey the isotropic
Gaussian target distribution. We then make the samples
𝒙𝑛 differentiable and optimize then to minimize the value
of the different statistical tests compute on𝑀 random
𝑀 random directions. Those directions are resampled
after each gradient step–which follows the procedure we
will employ in LeJEPA. We present the results in Figure 6
demonstrating that even in challenging case, i.e.,𝐷=512
and𝑀=16 , SIGReg is able to detect the two degenerate
dimensions and unfold them back to how they should
look like under the target distribution.
5 LeJEPA: Stable and Scalable
Implementation
HavingestablishedthatisotropicGaussiansaretheoptimal
embedding distribution for foundation models (Section 3)
andintroducedSIGRegtoachievethisdistribution(def.2),
we now present the complete LeJEPA framework. We first
evaluatecandidatestatisticaltests(Sections4.2.1and4.2.2)
and identify characteristic function-based tests as optimal
forgradient-basedtraining(Section4.2.3). ThefullLeJEPA
implementation follows in Section 5.1.
5.1 LeJEPA: SIGReg + Prediction Loss
We now discuss the implementation of LeJEPA starting
with SIGReg and followed by the prediction and total
losses.
The SIGReg Loss.We chose(Epps–Pulley)for its prov-
ableboundedness(thm.4)anditsscalability. Itsimplemen-
tation follows exactly the equation except for the integrate
which is estimated using a quadrature approximation. We
11

--- PAGE 12 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA |Sec 6: Experiments
find that the simple trapezoidal quadrature rule is suffi-
cient even with as few knots as17, as ablated in Figure 20.
In particular, we leverage the symmetry of the integrand
todoublethenumberofknotsforfree,seetheofficialcode.
On the other hand, the use of minibatches introduces a
bias vanishing at rate𝒪(1/𝑁), as formalized below.
Theorem 6: Vanishing gradient bias
The expectation of (Epps–Pulley) satisfies
E
h
b𝐿𝑛(𝜃)
i
=𝐿(𝜃)+ 1
𝑁
∫
R
𝑤𝑠(𝑡)
 
1−|𝜑 𝑃(𝑡)|2
𝑑𝑡,
therefore both the loss and its derivative have a bias of order
𝑂(1/𝑛). (Proof in Section B.13.)
Hence,thegradientsweobtainfromusing (Epps–Pulley)
are biased by an explicit𝒪(1/𝑁) term. We found this bias
to be minimal and not a concern even for minibatches
as small as 16. Unbiased alternatives include using U-
statistic debiasing of|𝜙𝜃|2 or sample splitting, which we
do not explore in this study. Our final implementation of
the SIGReg term with Epps-Pulley statistic is provided in
algorithm 1.
ThePredictionLoss.Tostandardizenotations,weadopt
theDINO[Caronetal.,2021]setupofgenerating 𝑉𝑔 global
views and𝑉𝑙 local views, leading to a total of𝑉=𝑉 𝑔+𝑉𝑙
views. We set the first1,...,𝑉 𝑔 indices of each𝒛𝑛,𝑣 as the
global views. For the cases without local views, simply
set𝑉𝑙 =0 . The prediction loss is then given by having all
views predict the global views as
ℒpred({𝒛𝑛,𝑣}𝑉
𝑣=1)= 1
𝑉𝑔
𝑉𝑔Õ
𝑣=1
1
𝑉
𝑉Õ
𝑣′=1
∥𝒛𝑛,𝑣−𝒛 𝑛,𝑣′∥2
2 (5)
= 1
𝑉
𝑉Õ
𝑣′=1

1
𝑉g
𝑉gÕ
𝑣=1
𝒛𝑛,𝑣−𝒛 𝑛,𝑣′

2
2
(6)
≜ 1
𝑉
𝑉Õ
𝑣′=1
𝝁𝑛−𝒛 𝑛,𝑣′
2
2,(7)
where we denote𝝁𝑛 ≜ 1
𝑉𝑔
˝𝑉𝑔
𝑣=1 𝒛𝑛,𝑣, the Equation (5) to
Equation (6) derivations are detailed in Section B.6.
LeJEPA Loss.The final total loss simply combines the
above prediction loss along with SIGReg on each views as
per
ℒLeJEP A({𝒙𝑛,𝑣}𝐵,𝑉
𝑛,𝑣=1)= 𝜆
𝑉
𝑉Õ
𝑣=1
SIGReg({{𝒛𝑛,𝑣}𝐵
𝑛=1})
+ 1−𝜆
𝐵
𝐵Õ
𝑛=1
ℒ
(𝑉g)
pred({𝒛𝑛,𝑣}𝑉
𝑣=1).(LeJEPA)
We present(LeJEPA)’s implementation in algorithm 2.
Altogether, the entire implementation–besides the usual
modeldefinitions,optimizers,anddataloaders–onlytakes
a few dozens lines in PyTorch (algorithms 1 and 2). The
absenceofprototypes,stop-gradients,andteacher-student
networks makes(LeJEPA)appealing as it only contains
one hyperparameter,𝜆, balancing the trade-off between
the prediction and isotropic Gaussian terms.
5.2 Relation to Prior Work
Prior to presenting our experiments (Section 6), we con-
cludebydiscussinghowourproposedLeJEPAandSIGReg
objective relate to existing frameworks in the literature.
While there is no existing solution employing such
slicing and distribution matching for JEPAs, there exists
similar pipelines for generative models and optimal trans-
port. Notably, theSlicedScoreMatching[Songetal.,2020]
proposes to leverage univariate slicing of the space to ease
the estimation of a density for generative models. In a
similarvein,theslicedWassersteindistance[Bonneeletal.,
2015,NguyenandHo,2023]usessuchstrategytospeedup
and improve optimal transport. Furthermore, when the
integral of the(Epps–Pulley)test is computed exactly, as
opposed to our quadrature, each slice loss value recovers
thekernelMMD[Sriperumbuduretal.,2010,Grettonetal.,
2012,Chwialkowskietal.,2016]measuringthedistancebe-
tweentwodistributions–albeitwithaquadraticcomplexity.
Lastly, it is possible to recover some existing SSL frame-
works in the limit by employing LeJEPA with a particular
test–instead of the preferred(Epps–Pulley). For example,
Setting𝑇({𝑥𝑛}𝐵
𝑛=1)=mean({𝑥 𝑛}𝐵
𝑛=1)2+(std({𝑥 𝑛}𝐵
𝑛=1)−1) 2
and using that𝑇 with SIGReg in LeJEPA recovers the
VICReg SSL method in the limit of large number of slices.
In fact, SIGReg will enforce in expectation thatE[Z]=0
and Cov(Z)=I 𝑑, where I𝑑 denotes the 𝑑×𝑑 identity
matrix–derivations provided in Section B.14. And since
our invariance term is simply theℓ2 distance between
the views’ embeddings, LeJEPA recovers VICReg for this
degenerate statistical test. Based on thm. 3, we however
strongly advocate against such a setting as it would lead
to shortcut solutions–a phenomenon already observed in
VICReg.
6 LeJEPA: Empirical Validation
We now use the LeJEPA implementation described in
Section 5.1 to demonstrate its effectiveness through com-
prehensive experiments. We show that LeJEPA: (i) trains
reliably across diverse architectures and datasets (Sec-
tion 6.1), (ii) provides an informative training loss for
model selection (Section 6.2), (iii) outperforms frontier
vision models on small-scale in-domain pretraining (Sec-
tion 6.3), (iv) scales successfully to nearly 1 billion param-
eters on ImageNet-1k (Section 6.4), and (v) learns rich
12

--- PAGE 13 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA |Sec 6: Experiments
10□3 10□2 10□1
λ (log-scale)
74
76
78
80
82
84
86top1 acc. (%)
ResNet50-inet100 acc. vs λ
2 Views
4 Views
8 Views
Figure 8.Inet100 with 400pretraining epochs and resnet50 backbone.
Wedepictlinearprobeperformancesasafunctionof 𝜆andthenumberof
views𝑉 (recall (LeJEPA)). We observe that performances are stable over
𝜆–withpeak performance obtain by slightly adjust𝜆 proportionally
to the number of views. The corresponding performance values are
provided in Table 7.
semantic segmentation features without explicit supervi-
sion.
6.1 LeJEPA’s Stability Across
Hyper-Parameters and Architectures
WenowdemonstrateLeJEPA’sstabilityacrosshyperparam-
eters, architectures, and experimental setups. Additional
cross-domain stability results are presented in Section 6.3.
Stability across standard hyperparameters.We begin
by evaluating LeJEPA on ImageNet-100 and ImageNet-
1K. On ImageNet-100, we train a ResNet-50 and vary the
number of views and the loss weighting𝜆 (Figure 8).
Performance remains stable across both dimensions, lead-
ing us to recommend𝜆=0.05 as a robust default. On
ImageNet-1K, we train a ViT-Large/14 and explore batch
size, as well as the number of global (𝑉g) and local (𝑉l)
views(Table1b). Wefindthattheconfigurationcommonly
usedinpriorwork( 𝑉g=2,𝑉 l=8 )transferswelltoLeJEPA.
Notably, LeJEPA achieves competitive performance with
batch sizes as small as 128 on ImageNet-1K (Table 1c),
suggesting reduced memory requirements compared to
existing methods.We thus recommend to use 𝜆=0.05 ,
𝑉g=2,𝑉 l=8, and batch size≥128as starting points.
StabilityacrossEpps-Pulleyhyperparameters.Wenext
examine hyperparameters specific to LeJEPA: the num-
ber of slices|𝒜| in SIGReg, the integration domain for
the Epps-Pulley test(Epps–Pulley), and the number of
quadrature points for numerical integration. Table 1a
showsablationsonImageNet-1KwithViT-Large/14. Both
the integration domain and number of quadrature points
have negligible impact on performance. This is expected:
since the characteristic function is accurate at zero, the
Table 1.ViT/Large-14, on inet1k pretraining for 100 epochs and evalu-
ated with frozen backbone linear probing (top1 accuracy, %).LeJEPA’s
performance is stable across all its hyperparametersand while some
may slightly improve performance, e.g., the number of slices|A|and the
projector sizes, none of the choices lead to a catastrophic collapse.
(a)(Epps–Pulley)parameters
integration num_slices config/bstat_n_points
5 17 41
[−1,1]512 71.82 72.13 72.04
2048 72.88 72.30 72.69
[−3,3]512 73.95 74.16 74.04
2048 75.02 74.68 74.77
[−5,5]512 73.71 74.21 74.15
2048 74.50 74.80 74.77
(b) Number of local/global views
# global_views (𝑉g) 1 2 4
# views (𝑉=𝑉g+𝑉 l)
4 53.06 72.26 –
6 58.65 73.07 73.68
8 64.46 74.24 73.94
10 68.97 74.06 75.08
(c) Mini-batch size
batch_size 128 256 512 1024
72.20 74.15 74.72 74.07
(d) Embedding/Projector dim.
num_slices 1024 4096
emb. dim. 512 2048 512 2048
proj. dim.
64 75.29 75.32 75.50 75.65
128 74.77 75.09 75.26 75.47
256 74.56 74.66 75.08 75.02
512 73.94 74.11 74.81 74.65
1024 73.65 73.94 74.71 74.79
(e) Register tokens
reg_tokens 0 1 2 4 8
num_slices
1024 75.14 75.18 75.08 75.34 75.23
4096 75.61 75.58 75.67 75.63 75.84
moments of the distribution are well-characterized even
with a modest integration range. The number of slices|𝒜|
has a modest effect—while more slices slightly improve
performance, even 512 slices yield competitive results.We
thus recommend to use 17 integration points, an integration
domain of[−5,5], and 1024 slices as starting points.
13

--- PAGE 14 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA |Sec 6: Experiments
2M 5M 8M 10M 12M 15M 18M
Parameters (Millions)
91.5
92.0
92.5
93.0
93.5
94.0
94.5
95.0Top-1 Accuracy (%)
Inet10 –  LeJEPA pretrained, frozen backbone, linear eval –  50 architectures ( < 20M params.)
Model Family
convnext
efficientnet
inception
levit
maxvit
maxxvit
resnet
vit
convnext˙atto˙ols
convnext˙atto˙rms
convnext˙femto
convnext˙nano
convnext˙nano˙ols
convnext˙pico˙ols
convnext˙zepto˙rms
convnext˙zepto˙rms˙ols
convnextv2˙femto
efficientnet˙b0˙g8˙gn
efficientnet˙b0˙gn
inception˙next˙atto levit˙128
levit˙128s
levit˙192 levit˙conv˙256
maxvit˙nano˙rw˙256maxvit˙pico˙rw˙256
maxvit˙rmlp˙nano˙rw˙256maxvit˙rmlp˙pico˙rw˙256
resnet14t
resnet18d
resnet26
resnet26d
resnet26t
resnet32ts
resnet33ts
resnetblur18
resnext26ts
vit˙pe˙core˙tiny˙patch16˙384
Figure 9.INet10 pretraining and frozen backbone linear evaluation across50 timm models using LeJEPA out of the box. We cross-validate the
learning rate and weight-decay. While there is a small variation between the best and worst performing model, we clearly see thatacross50models
spanning8families, LeJEPA is able to produce non-trivial representations able to solve the downstream task at SOTA levels.
Stability across architectures.A key advantage of
LeJEPA over recent methods (e.g., ĲEPA, DINOv2) is
its architecture-agnostic design. While most modern self-
supervised methods are tailored to Vision Transformers,
LeJEPA works across diverse architecture families with-
out modification. To validate this claim, we pretrain
approximately 50 architectures from 8 different families
on ImageNet-10, selecting all models in the timm library
with fewer than 20M parameters. All models are able to
learnhigh-qualityrepresentationsreachingbetween91.5%
to 95% top 1 accuracy with frozen backbone linear prob-
ing. It seems that models performing well in supervised
learning setups are also the ones to favor for LeJEPA, such
as resnets and ViTs.We thus recommend to use standard
architectures such as ResNets and ViTs over specialized models
like EfficientNet as stating point.
Removalofpopularheuristics.Inadditiontoproviding
reliableperformanceacrossmodelsanddatasets,LeJEPA’s
provableconstructionenablesustoremovemanyheuristics
traditionally used to prevent collapse. First, prior work
has shown both empirically and theoretically that predic-
tors in image JEPA (without asymmetric information) and
teacher-student architectures serve primarily to prevent
collapse [Grill et al., 2020, Jing et al., 2021, Tian et al.,
2021, Caron et al., 2021, Chen et al., 2021]. Removing
these components producescollapsedencoders, i.e., with
performances at chance-level. Thanks to LeJEPA’s SIGReg
loss,wecanremoveboththepredictorandteacher-student
architecture without suffering from collapse, as shown in
Table 4. While a teacher-student configuration does pro-
videasmallperformanceboostforViTmodels—consistent
with observations in supervised learning via Stochastic
Weight Averaging [Izmailov et al., 2019]—it is not neces-
sary to prevent collapse. In our setup, we apply SWA on
the encoder producing𝜇 in Equation (6). Second, recent
work demonstrated that register tokens are needed to pre-
vent training instabilities in vision models [Oquab et al.,
2023, Siméoni et al., 2025, Darcet et al., 2023]. We show
in Table 1 that such instabilities likely stem from poorly
conditioned training objectives. In contrast, LeJEPAdoes
notrequireregistertokensandachievesstableperformance
with or without them.We thus recommend training without
apredictororregistertokens,andoptionallyapplyingSWAwith
ViTs for a possible performance gain.
Experiment Details 1
We strive forsimplicityand thus adopt a unified pretraining
pipeline. The following parameters apply toallexperiments
and figures unless stated otherwise in the corresponding
caption and come from Section 6.1:
• LeJEPA’s implementation is given in algorithm 2 with
hyperparameter𝜆
• Allbackbonesarefrom timmandalloptimizers/sched-
ulers are fromPyT orchwithout modifications
• We employ eight views (𝑉=8 ) containing two global
views (𝑉g=2 ) with resolution 224x224 and 96x96 for
the local views
• AdamW optimizer withlr∈{5𝑒−3,5𝑒−4} and wd∈
{1𝑒−1,1𝑒−2,1𝑒−5} –no scheduler on weight-decay,
standard linear warm-up cosine-annealing forlr
6.2 LeJEPA’s Training Loss is Informative
of Downstream Performance
A major challenge in SSL pretraining is the lack of reliable
signals conveying the quality of the learned representa-
tion. As a result, it is common to monitor a supervised
14

--- PAGE 15 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA |Sec 6: Experiments
100 101
SIGReg loss (log-scale)
10□1
Pred. loss (log-scale)
resnet50 - galaxy10
18.91
33.98
49.06
64.13
79.21
Accuracy
100 101
SIGReg loss (log-scale)
10□2
10□1
Pred. loss (log-scale)
resnet50 - inet10
38.51
52.39
66.27
80.15
94.03
Accuracy
100 101
SIGReg loss (log-scale)
10□1
100
Pred. loss (log-scale)
ViT/base-14 - inet1k
0.23
18.39
36.56
54.73
72.90
Accuracy
Figure 10.(SIGReg, prediction loss)2𝑑-plane with downstream task accuracy shown with colors fromblue(low) tored(high). We clearly observe
that within this plane,there exists trade-off fronts between the two terms of LeJEPA producing similar downstream performancecorresponding to
different values of𝜆. Yet, those fronts are linear and pointed towards the lower left corner, i.e., LeJEPA’s training loss informs of downstream test
performance across models and datasets (columns). Additional models and datasets provided in Figure 21.
□3 □2 □1 0 1 2 3
Alignment coeﬃcient ( α)
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Corr(train loss/λα, test acc)
resnet18 ﬂowers102: 0.60 → 0.95
resnet50 galaxy10: 0.85 → 0.98
resnet50 inet10: 0.81 → 0.99
ViT/base-8 inet1k: 0.88 → 0.93
ViT/s-8 galaxy10: 0.88 → 0.98
ViT/s-8 inet10: 0.90 → 0.98
Figure 11.Spearman correlation (y-axis)between LeJEPA’s training
loss and downstream accuracy on the dataset’s classification task with a
frozenbackboneandlinearevaluation. Thex-axisvaries 𝛼inEquation(8)
following our scaling law of the loss w.r.t.𝜆. Using𝛼=0 recovers the
plain training loss. We clearly observe a very high correlation already for
𝛼=0 , which further increases up to99% for 𝛼=0.4 . The entire set of
points is obtained across numerous hyper-parameters such as learning
rate, weight decay, number of epochs,𝜆–demonstrating howLeJEPA’s
training loss is strongly predictive of downstream performancewhich
can be used for label-free cross-validation.
downstream task performance, sometimes supplemented
with unsupervised embedding statistics [Agrawal et al.,
2022, Garrido et al., 2023, Thilak et al., 2023]. This process
is highly limiting since it requires labeled data that is
costly and overly specialized. This is further exacerbated
inthelatestJEPAmodelswheretraininglossesexhibitlow
correlation with downstream performance–and may not
even decrease monotonically during training.
In contrast, we find that LeJEPA’s training loss behaves
much more favorably–providing us with a meaningful
signal on model quality. First, we provide in Figure 10,
the2DplanespannedbytheSIGRegandpredictionlosses
where a clear trend with downstream task accuracy can
be observed. More strikingly, the combined training loss
(LeJEPA) with mixing coefficient 𝜆 exhibits very high
Spearman correlation [Spearman, 1961], denoted as𝜌𝑠, of
about 85% with downstream accuracy–which is consid-
ered a strong signal. This strong relationship holds across
datasets and architectures. As a result, a lower LeJEPA
training loss reliably indicates a better downstream perfor-
mance.
We can further improve this correlation through a sim-
ple scaling law based upon the trade-off weighting hyper-
parameter𝜆
𝐶(𝛼) =𝜌 𝑠

train_loss
𝜆𝛼 ,test_accuracy

.(8)
By setting𝛼≈0.4 , LeJEPA’s training loss is able to achieve
nearly 99% correlation with downstream performance
across multiple datasets and models. We depict the
changes in𝐶(𝛼) as a function of𝛼 on multiple datasets
and models in Figure 11, as well as the training LeJEPA
loss against downstream performance in Figure 19.The
strong alignment between LeJEPA’s training loss and
model quality enables label-free SSL model selection
and cross-validation.
6.3 In-Domain LeJEPA Outperforms
Frontier Model Transfer Learning
A key promise of self-supervised learning is to learn uni-
versal representations that generalize across tasks and
domains. However, current frontier foundation models
(e.g., DINOv2/v3, ĲEPA) are pretrained on natural im-
ages forcing practitioners in specialized domains to collect
large amount of labels for supervised finetuning. In fact,
most frontier models can not be trained directly on those
domains as the number of samples may be small and
searching again for the hyper-parameters would be cum-
15

--- PAGE 16 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA |Sec 6: Experiments
1 2 5 10 100 1000 all
Samples per class
20
30
40
50
60
70
80Accuracy (%)
Full ﬁnetuning
1 2 5 10 100 1000 all
Samples per class
Frozen backbone
LeJEPA convnextv2 nano (galaxy10)
LeJEPA levit 128 (galaxy10)
LeJEPA resnet18 (galaxy10)
LeJEPA resnet34 (galaxy10)
DINOv2 ViT/s (L VD142M)
DINOv3 ViT/s (L VD1.7B)
Figure 12.Small architecture in-domain (Galaxy10) LeJEPA pretrainingwith linear probe evaluation using frozen backbone or full finetuning
(columns) and with varying number of samples per class (x-axis). We compare against state-of-the-art foundation models (DINOv2/v3, ĲEPA) over3
different random seeds. We observe thatLeJEPA enables in-domain pretraining out of the box across architectures and able to outperform frontier
foundation models. Corresponding numbers are provided in Table 3.
Table 2.Few-shot classification accuracy (percentages) on 8 datasets spanning textures, objects, and fine-grained categories.Our LeJEPA achieves
superior performance on fine-grained tasks (DTD, flowers102, food101) while requiring only 100 pretraining epochs compared to I-JEPA’s 300
epochs—a 3×reduction in training time and computational resources without sacrificing downstream task performance.This efficiency gain is
particularly valuable for practical applications where training budget is limited. Bold indicates best performance within the IN-1K comparison group,
all numbers are percentages.
Dataset
shots model params pretrain epochs DTD aircr. cars cifar10 cifar100 flowers102 food pets avg.
1
LeJEPA ViT-L 304M IN-1K 10033.219.37 3.40 51.65 27.01 48.53 17.14 46.11 29.55
LeJEPA ConvNeXtV2-H 660M IN-1K 100 32.15 8.07 4.28 50.95 31.4848.74 17.9558.98 31.58
I-JEPA ViT-H 632M IN-1K 300 27.71 9.86 4.3356.5230.58 44.69 14.53 53.38 30.20
I-JEPA ViT-H + STOP 632M IN-1K 300 26.6011.18 4.7556.2735.2047.17 15.7559.47 32.05
I-JEPA ViT-H (22K) 632M IN-22K 900 27.98 13.00 3.45 61.84 34.70 89.72 19.62 30.86 35.15
10
LeJEPA ViT-L 304M IN-1K 10064.7235.25 22.25 85.15 59.7792.53 50.9077.00 60.95
LeJEPA ConvNeXtV2-H 660M IN-1K 100 61.84 30.67 24.46 85.74 63.29 91.78 49.32 78.53 60.70
I-JEPA ViT-H 632M IN-1K 300 57.68 33.82 21.96 88.77 66.42 88.24 43.97 83.23 60.51
I-JEPA ViT-H + STOP 632M IN-1K 300 57.0039.77 25.21 90.09 70.3290.16 45.6885.13 62.92
I-JEPA ViT-H (22K) 632M IN-22K 900 58.74 43.52 18.27 94.83 75.23 98.94 49.06 67.66 63.28
all
LeJEPA ViT-L 304M IN-1K 10078.3057.01 57.28 96.50 83.7191.21 82.0589.74 79.48
LeJEPA ConvNeXtV2-H 660M IN-1K 100 76.60 52.99 54.88 96.15 81.34 91.11 77.64 89.76 77.56
I-JEPA ViT-H 632M IN-1K 300 73.32 56.61 54.47 97.54 86.42 86.47 81.02 92.11 78.50
I-JEPA ViT-H + STOP 632M IN-1K 300 73.8761.95 61.27 98.02 87.7888.08 81.7292.88 80.70
I-JEPA ViT-H (22K) 632M IN-22K 900 75.67 65.39 49.79 98.46 89.95 98.54 81.58 87.19 80.82
Figure 13.Emergent Object Segmentation via Last Layer Thresholding.LeJEPA naturally learns to segment and track salient objects (shown in
attention maps on the right of each video) without explicit supervision. The results display impressive visual quality and strong temporal consistency
across video frames (videos provided on our project page). This emergent capability demonstrates the rich semantic representations learned through our
self-supervised approach.
16

--- PAGE 17 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA |Sec 6: Experiments
Figure 14.LeJEPA learns rich semantic representations through
self-supervised learning.PCA visualization of last-layer features from
LeJEPA (ViT-Large, 100 epochs on ImageNet-1K). For each image, fea-
tures are independently projected to RGB using the first 3 principal
components. Without any supervision, LeJEPA spontaneously develops
semantically meaningful representations: notice how warm colors (red/-
magenta/pink) consistently capture foreground objects (parrot bodies,
dog face), while cool colors (cyan/green/yellow) represent backgrounds
and foliage. This emergent object-background separation and percep-
tual grouping discovered the visual structure of the world purely from
unlabeled data.
bersome yet necessary [Assran et al., 2022].
TodemonstrateLeJEPA’sversatilityandabilitytoresolve
that current pain-point, we propose to pretrain directly
on a new domain without any change in the loss or the
pretraining pipeline. We select the Galaxy10 dataset, a
galaxy morphology classification task that differs signif-
icantly from natural images in both visual structure and
statistical properties [Balestriero et al., 2025]. The dataset
contains 11,000 training samples across 10 galaxy types.
For LeJEPA, we use the default hyper-parameters and pre-
train for 400 epochs a variety of backbones. We compare
against the latest DINOv2, DINOv3 and ĲEPA. We report
in Figure 12 the top1 accuracy for linear probing both
with frozen backbone and full-finetuning. We observe
thatin-domain pretraining with LeJEPA substantially
outperforms state-of-the-art frontier models (DINOv2,
DINOv3) on both linear probing and full finetuning.
AdditionaldatasetsandbackbonesareprovidedinTable5
depicting LeJEPA’s ability to train in-domain, even with
a dataset with1000 samples (flowers102). Coupling this
resultwiththestabilityofLeJEPAacrossarchitecturesand
hyper-parameters should offer a promising alternatives
in domains not yet accounted for by the latest frontier
models.
6.4 LeJEPA Scales Across Data and Models
We now propose to apply LeJEPA over a larger pretrain-
ing dataset, i.e., Imagenet-1k, and over larger backbones
such as ViT/Large (0.3B), ConvNextV2-Huge (0.6B). For
those two models, we reach an online linear probe accu-
racy on inet1k of 77.1% and 78.5% respectively. Beyond
in-distribution performances, we also explore transfer
learning. For those experiments, our baselines are ĲEPA
with a ViT-Huge (0.6B) which is the closest to our setup,
and we also include a recent improved version of ĲEPA
including additional stochastic prediction tasks [Bar et al.,
2023] that is coined ĲEPA + STOP. For LeJEPA, we employ
thesamerecipeasdescribedinSection6.1andreporttrans-
ferlearningperformanceswithfrozenbackboneinTable2.
We observe that we consistently outperform ĲEPA while
employed a smaller model and shorted training schedule.
Beyond top1 accuracy, we also echo our findings from
Section 6.2 about LeJEPA’s training loss quality. In our
setup, we observe a very stable and smooth training curve
indicating a stable optimization landscape removing the
need for careful hyperparameter selection (recall thm. 4).
WeprovideanexampleonaViT-gigantic(1.8Bparameters)
in Figure 1.
6.5 Emergent Semantic Structure in
LeJEPA Representations
A hallmark of successful self-supervised learning is the
emergence of semantically meaningful attention patterns
17

--- PAGE 18 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
without explicit supervision [Caron et al., 2021]. To as-
sess whether LeJEPA learns such structure, we visualize
the attention maps of the learned representations. Fol-
lowing DINO [Caron et al., 2021], we apply PCA to the
embeddings and visualize the first principal components,
which reveal clear correspondence to object boundaries
and salient regions (Figure 14). Furthermore, we explore
whether these attention patterns can enable unsupervised
video segmentation—a challenging task requiring tempo-
ralconsistencyandobjectunderstanding. Bythresholding
the self-attention maps of the [CLS] token, we obtain
binary masks that track objects across frames without
any segmentation labels during training. As shown in Fig-
ure13,LeJEPA’sattentionnaturallysegmentsforeground
objects from background with remarkable temporal co-
herence, suggesting that the learned representations cap-
ture both spatial semantics and temporal structure. This
emergent capability demonstrates that LeJEPA’s stability-
focused objective does not sacrifice the semantic richness
of learned features.
7 Conclusion
We have established a principled theoretical framework
for JEPA-based self-supervised learning that fundamen-
tally resolves its core pathologies. Our contributions span
theory and practice: we proved that isotropic Gaussian
embeddings uniquely minimize worst-case downstream
risk,introducedSIGRegasatractableandprovablycorrect
method to enforce this distribution, and demonstrated
that this approach eliminates representational collapse by
design–and not through ad-hoc combinations of teacher-
student networks, stop-gradients, or asymmetric architec-
tures.
We validate LeJEPA across domains and over60archi-
tectures including gigantic versions with 1.8B parameters.
In spite of its simplicify , LeJEPA matches state-of-the-art
performancewhilerequiringfewerthan50linesofcoreim-
plementation. Critically, our approach provides what SSL
has long needed: a mathematically rigorous foundation
that directly informs practical algorithm design.
Acknowledgments
We would like to thank Mike Rabbat and Lucas Maes for
providing valuable feedbacks on the manuscript.
References
Haneen Arafat Abu Alfeilat, Ahmad BA Hassanat, Omar
Lasassmeh, Ahmad S Tarawneh, Mahmoud Bashir Al-
hasanat, Hamzeh S Eyal Salman, and VB Surya Prasath.
Effectsofdistancemeasurechoiceonk-nearestneighbor
classifier performance: a review.Big data, 7(4):221–248,
2019.
Robert A Adams and John JF Fournier.Sobolev spaces,
volume 140. Elsevier, 2003.
Kumar K Agrawal, Arnab Kumar Mondal, Arna Ghosh,
and Blake Richards. a-req: Assessing representation
quality in self-supervised learning by measuring eigen-
spectrumdecay.AdvancesinNeuralInformationProcessing
Systems, 35:17626–17638, 2022.
TheodoreWAndersonandDonaldADarling. Asymptotic
theory of certain" goodness of fit" criteria based on
stochastic processes.The annals of mathematical statistics,
pages 193–212, 1952.
Mahmoud Assran, Randall Balestriero, Quentin Duval,
Florian Bordes, Ishan Misra, Piotr Bojanowski, Pascal
Vincent,MichaelRabbat,andNicolasBallas. Thehidden
uniform cluster prior in self-supervised learning.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2210.07277, 2022.
Mahmoud Assran, Quentin Duval, Ishan Misra, Piotr Bo-
janowski, Pascal Vincent, Michael Rabbat, Yann LeCun,
and Nicolas Ballas. Self-supervised learning from im-
ages with a joint-embedding predictive architecture. In
ProceedingsoftheIEEE/CVFConferenceonComputerVision
and Pattern Recognition, pages 15619–15629, 2023.
RandallBalestrieroandYannLeCun. Contrastiveandnon-
contrastive self-supervised learning recover global and
local spectral embedding methods.Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 35:26671–26685, 2022.
Randall Balestriero and Yann LeCun. Learning by recon-
struction produces uninformative features for percep-
tion.arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.11337, 2024.
Randall Balestriero, Mark Ibrahim, Vlad Sobal, Ari Mor-
cos, Shashank Shekhar, Tom Goldstein, Florian Bordes,
Adrien Bardes, Gregoire Mialon, Yuandong Tian, et al.
A cookbook of self-supervised learning.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2304.12210, 2023.
RandallBalestriero,NicolasBallas,MikeRabbat,andYann
LeCun. Gaussianembeddings: Howjepassecretlylearn
your data density.arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.05949, 2025.
Amir Bar, Florian Bordes, Assaf Shocher, Mahmoud As-
sran, Pascal Vincent, Nicolas Ballas, Trevor Darrell,
Amir Globerson, and Yann LeCun. Stochastic posi-
tional embeddings improve masked image modeling.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.00566, 2023.
Adrien Bardes, Jean Ponce, and Yann LeCun. Vicreg:
Variance-invariance-covariance regularization for self-
supervised learning.arXiv preprint arXiv:2105.04906,
2021.
18

--- PAGE 19 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
JanBeirlant,EdwardJDudewicz,LászlóGyörfi,EdwardC
Van der Meulen, et al. Nonparametric entropy estima-
tion: An overview.International Journal of Mathematical
and Statistical Sciences, 6(1):17–39, 1997.
Chris M Bishop. Training with noise is equivalent to
tikhonov regularization.Neural computation, 7(1):108–
116, 1995.
Christopher M Bishop and Nasser M Nasrabadi.Pattern
recognition and machine learning, volume 4. Springer,
2006.
Gunnar Blom.Statistical estimates and transformed beta-
variables. PhD thesis, Almqvist & Wiksell, 1958.
Nicolas Bonneel, Julien Rabin, Gabriel Peyré, and
HanspeterPfister. Slicedandradonwassersteinbarycen-
ters of measures.Journal of Mathematical Imaging and
Vision, 51(1):22–45, 2015.
Jane Bromley, Isabelle Guyon, Yann LeCun, Eduard
Säckinger, and Roopak Shah. Signature verification
using a" siamese" time delay neural network.Advances
in neural information processing systems, 6, 1993.
Jerome S Bruner and Leo Postman. On the perception of
incongruity: A paradigm.Journal of personality, 18(2):
206–223, 1949.
Russel E Caflisch. Monte carlo and quasi-monte carlo
methods.Acta numerica, 7:1–49, 1998.
Torsten Carleman.Les Fonctions quasi analytiques: leçons
professées au College de France. Gauthier-Villars, 1926.
Mathilde Caron, Hugo Touvron, Ishan Misra, Hervé Jé-
gou,JulienMairal,PiotrBojanowski,andArmandJoulin.
Emergingpropertiesinself-supervisedvisiontransform-
ers. InProceedingsoftheIEEE/CVFinternationalconference
on computer vision, pages 9650–9660, 2021.
Ting Chen, Simon Kornblith, Mohammad Norouzi, and
Geoffrey Hinton. A simple framework for contrastive
learningofvisualrepresentations. InInternationalconfer-
ence on machine learning, pages 1597–1607. PmLR, 2020a.
Ting Chen, Simon Kornblith, Kevin Swersky, Mohammad
Norouzi, and Geoffrey E Hinton. Big self-supervised
models are strong semi-supervised learners.Advances
in neural information processing systems, 33:22243–22255,
2020b.
Xinlei Chen, Saining Xie, and Kaiming He. An empirical
study of training self-supervised vision transformers.
InProceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference on
computer vision, pages 9640–9649, 2021.
Kacper Chwialkowski, Heiko Strathmann, and Arthur
Gretton. A kernel test of goodness of fit. InInternational
conference on machine learning, pages 2606–2615. PMLR,
2016.
RomainCosentino,AnirvanSengupta,SalmanAvestimehr,
Mahdi Soltanolkotabi, Antonio Ortega, Ted Willke, and
Mariano Tepper. Toward a geometrical understanding
of self-supervised contrastive learning.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2205.06926, 2022.
ThomasMCover.Elementsofinformationtheory. JohnWiley
& Sons, 1999.
Harald Cramér. On the composition of elementary errors:
First paper: Mathematical deductions.Scandinavian
Actuarial Journal, 1928(1):13–74, 1928.
Harald Cramér and Herman Wold. Some theorems on
distributionfunctions.JournaloftheLondonMathematical
Society, 1(4):290–294, 1936.
Marco Cuturi, Olivier Teboul, and Jean-Philippe Vert. Dif-
ferentiable ranking and sorting using optimal transport.
Advancesinneuralinformationprocessingsystems, 32, 2019.
Timothée Darcet, Maxime Oquab, Julien Mairal, and Piotr
Bojanowski. Vision transformers need registers.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2309.16588, 2023.
Josef Dick and Friedrich Pillichshammer.Digital nets
and sequences: discrepancy theory and quasi–Monte Carlo
integration. Cambridge University Press, 2010.
Ted Dunning. The t-digest: Efficient estimates of distribu-
tions.Software Impacts, 7:100049, 2021.
Ted Dunning and Otmar Ertl. Computing extremely
accurate quantiles using t-digests.arXiv preprint
arXiv:1902.04023, 2019.
Gustav Elfving. The asymptotical distribution of range in
samples from a normal population.Biometrika, 34(1/2):
111–119, 1947.
Thomas W Epps and Lawrence B Pulley. A test for nor-
mality based on the empirical characteristic function.
Biometrika, 70(3):723–726, 1983.
AleksandrErmolov,AliaksandrSiarohin,EnverSangineto,
and Nicu Sebe. Whitening for self-supervised repre-
sentation learning. InInternational conference on machine
learning, pages 3015–3024. PMLR, 2021.
David Fan, Shengbang Tong, Jiachen Zhu, Koustuv Sinha,
ZhuangLiu,XinleiChen,MichaelRabbat,NicolasBallas,
YannLeCun,AmirBar,etal.Scalinglanguage-freevisual
representation learning.arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.01017,
2025.
19

--- PAGE 20 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
RonaldAylmerFisher.Statisticalmethodsforresearchworkers.
Number 5. Oliver and Boyd, 1928.
Karl Friston. The free-energy principle: a unified brain
theory?Nature reviews neuroscience, 11(2):127–138, 2010.
Quentin Garrido, Randall Balestriero, Laurent Najman,
and Yann Lecun. Rankme: Assessing the downstream
performance of pretrained self-supervised representa-
tions by their rank. InInternational conference on machine
learning, pages 10929–10974. PMLR, 2023.
Gene H Golub, Per Christian Hansen, and Dianne P
O’Leary. Tikhonovregularizationandtotalleastsquares.
SIAM journal on matrix analysis and applications, 21(1):
185–194, 1999.
Ian Goodfellow, Yoshua Bengio, Aaron Courville, and
Yoshua Bengio.Deep learning, volume 1. MIT press
Cambridge, 2016.
Priya Goyal, Dhruv Mahajan, Abhinav Gupta, and Ishan
Misra. Scalingandbenchmarkingself-supervisedvisual
representation learning. InProceedings of the ieee/cvf
International Conference on computer vision, pages 6391–
6400, 2019.
Richard Langton Gregory. Perceptions as hypotheses.
Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London. B,
Biological Sciences, 290(1038):181–197, 1980.
Arthur Gretton, Karsten M Borgwardt, Malte J Rasch,
Bernhard Schölkopf, and Alexander Smola. A kernel
two-sample test.The journal of machine learning research,
13(1):723–773, 2012.
Jean-Bastien Grill, Florian Strub, Florent Altché, Corentin
Tallec, Pierre Richemond, Elena Buchatskaya, Carl Do-
ersch, Bernardo Avila Pires, Zhaohan Guo, Mohammad
GheshlaghiAzar,etal. Bootstrapyourownlatent-anew
approach to self-supervised learning.Advances in neural
information processing systems, 33:21271–21284, 2020.
Aditya Grover, Eric Wang, Aaron Zweig, and Stefano
Ermon. Stochastic optimization of sorting networks via
continuous relaxations.arXiv preprint arXiv:1903.08850,
2019.
AK Gupta. Estimation of the mean and standard devia-
tion of a normal population from a censored sample.
Biometrika, 39(3/4):260–273, 1952.
MichaelGutmannandAapoHyvärinen. Noise-contrastive
estimation: A new estimation principle for unnormal-
ized statistical models. InProceedings of the thirteenth
international conference on artificial intelligence and statis-
tics, pages 297–304. JMLR Workshop and Conference
Proceedings, 2010.
JM Hammersley and KW Morton. The estimation of loca-
tionandscaleparametersfromgroupeddata.Biometrika,
41(3/4):296–301, 1954.
Felix Hausdorff. Momentprobleme für ein endliches inter-
vall.Mathematische Zeitschrift, 16(1):220–248, 1923.
Kaiming He, Haoqi Fan, Yuxin Wu, Saining Xie, and Ross
Girshick. Momentum contrast for unsupervised visual
representation learning. InProceedings of the IEEE/CVF
conferenceoncomputervisionandpatternrecognition,pages
9729–9738, 2020.
H von Helmholtz et al. Handbook of physiological optics.
Voss, Leipzig, 1867.
RDevonHjelm, AlexFedorov, SamuelLavoie-Marchildon,
Karan Grewal, Phil Bachman, Adam Trischler, and
Yoshua Bengio. Learning deep representations by mu-
tual information estimation and maximization.arXiv
preprint arXiv:1808.06670, 2018.
C.A.R.Hoare. Quicksort.TheComputerJournal,5(1):10–16,
01 1962. ISSN 0010-4620. doi: 10.1093/comjnl/5.1.10.
URLhttps://doi.org/10.1093/comjnl/5.1.10.
Pavel Izmailov, Dmitrii Podoprikhin, Timur Garipov,
Dmitry Vetrov, and Andrew Gordon Wilson. Averaging
weightsleadstowideroptimaandbettergeneralization,
2019. URLhttps://arxiv.org/abs/1803.05407.
Carlos M Jarque and Anil K Bera. Efficient tests for nor-
mality, homoscedasticity and serial independence of
regression residuals.Economics letters, 6(3):255–259,
1980.
Li Jing, Pascal Vincent, Yann LeCun, and Yuandong Tian.
Understanding dimensional collapse in contrastive self-
supervised learning.arXiv preprint arXiv:2110.09348,
2021.
Harry Joe. Estimation of entropy and other functionals of
a multivariate density.Annals of the Institute of Statistical
Mathematics, 41(4):683–697, 1989.
Thomas Kerdreux, Alexandre Tuel, Quentin Febvre,
Alexis Mouche, and Bertrand Chapron. Efficient self-
supervised learning for earth observation via dynamic
datasetcuration. InProceedingsoftheComputerVisionand
Pattern Recognition Conference, pages 3017–3027, 2025.
Alexander Khazatsky, Karl Pertsch, Suraj Nair, Ash-
win Balakrishna, Sudeep Dasari, Siddharth Karam-
cheti, Soroush Nasiriany, Mohan Kumar Srirama,
Lawrence Yunliang Chen, Kirsty Ellis, et al. Droid:
A large-scale in-the-wild robot manipulation dataset.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.12945, 2024.
20

--- PAGE 21 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
Diederik P Kingma, Danilo J Rezende, Shakir Mohamed,
and Max Welling. Semi-supervised learning with deep
generativemodels.Advancesinneuralinformationprocess-
ing systems, 27, 2014.
A. N. Kolmogorov. Sulla determinazione empirica di una
legge di distribuzione.Giornale dell’Istituto Italiano degli
Attuari, 4:83–91, 1933.
Yann LeCun. A path towards autonomous machine intelli-
genceversion0.9.2,2022-06-27.OpenReview,62(1):1–62,
2022.
Yann LeCun, Yoshua Bengio, and Geoffrey Hinton. Deep
learning.nature, 521(7553):436–444, 2015.
ErichLeoLehmannandJosephPRomano.Testingstatistical
hypotheses. Springer, 2005.
Xiao Liu, Fanjin Zhang, Zhenyu Hou, Li Mian, Zhaoyu
Wang, Jing Zhang, and Jie Tang. Self-supervised learn-
ing: Generative or contrastive.IEEE transactions on
knowledge and data engineering, 35(1):857–876, 2021.
Zhuang Ma and Michael Collins. Noise contrastive esti-
mation and negative sampling for conditional models:
Consistency and statistical efficiency.arXiv preprint
arXiv:1809.01812, 2018.
Tobias Maltenberger, Ivan Ilic, Ilin Tolovski, and Tilmann
Rabl. Evaluating multi-gpu sorting with modern inter-
connects.InProceedingsofthe2022InternationalConference
on Management of Data, pages 1795–1809, 2022.
George Marsaglia. Choosing a point from the surface
of a sphere.The Annals of Mathematical Statistics, 43(2):
645–646, 1972.
Charles Masson, Jee E Rim, and Homin K Lee. Ddsketch:
A fast and fully-mergeable quantile sketch with relative-
error guarantees.arXiv preprint arXiv:1908.10693, 2019.
David McAllester and Karl Stratos. Formal limitations on
themeasurementofmutualinformation. InInternational
Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics, pages
875–884. PMLR, 2020.
H Mhaskar, F Narcowich, and J Ward. Spheri-
cal marcinkiewicz-zygmund inequalities and positive
quadrature.Mathematics of computation, 70(235):1113–
1130, 2001.
Erik G Miller. A new class of entropy estimators for
multi-dimensional densities. In2003 IEEE International
ConferenceonAcoustics,Speech,andSignalProcessing,2003.
Proceedings.(ICASSP’03)., volume 3, pages III–297. IEEE,
2003.
Frederick Mosteller.On some useful “inefficient” statistics.
Springer, 2006.
Elizbar A Nadaraya. On estimating regression.Theory of
Probability & Its Applications, 9(1):141–142, 1964.
Francis J Narcowich, Pencho Petrushev, and Joseph D
Ward. Localized tight frames on spheres.SIAM Journal
on Mathematical Analysis, 38(2):574–594, 2006.
Jerzy Neyman and Egon Sharpe Pearson. Ix. on the prob-
lem of the most efficient tests of statistical hypotheses.
Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London.
Series A, Containing Papers of a Mathematical or Physical
Character, 231(694-706):289–337, 1933.
Khai Nguyen and Nhat Ho. Energy-based sliced wasser-
stein distance.Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 36:18046–18075, 2023.
Aaron van den Oord, Yazhe Li, and Oriol Vinyals. Rep-
resentation learning with contrastive predictive coding.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1807.03748, 2018.
Maxime Oquab, Timothée Darcet, Théo Moutakanni, Huy
Vo, Marc Szafraniec, Vasil Khalidov, Pierre Fernandez,
Daniel Haziza, Francisco Massa, Alaaeldin El-Nouby,
et al. Dinov2: Learning robust visual features without
supervision.arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.07193, 2023.
VardanPapyan,XYHan,andDavidLDonoho. Prevalence
of neural collapse during the terminal phase of deep
learning training.Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences, 117(40):24652–24663, 2020.
FelixPetersen,ChristianBorgelt,HildeKuehne,andOliver
Deussen. Monotonic differentiable sorting networks.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.09630, 2022.
RoL Plackett. Linear estimation from censored data.The
Annals of Mathematical Statistics, 29(1):131–142, 1958.
BenPoole,SherjilOzair,AaronVanDenOord,AlexAlemi,
and George Tucker. On variational bounds of mutual in-
formation. InInternational conference on machine learning,
pages 5171–5180. PMLR, 2019.
M Mahibbur Rahman and Z Govindarajulu. A modifica-
tionofthetestofshapiroandwilkfornormality.Journal
of Applied Statistics, 24(2):219–236, 1997.
Bryan Rodas, Natalie Montesino, Jakob Ambsdorf, David
Klindt, and Randall Balestriero. Diet-cp: Lightweight
and data efficient self supervised continued pretraining.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.06990, 2025.
Samarendra Nath Roy. On a heuristic method of test
construction and its use in multivariate analysis.The
Annals of Mathematical Statistics, 24(2):220–238, 1953.
21

--- PAGE 22 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
David E Rumelhart, Geoffrey E Hinton, and Ronald J
Williams. Learningrepresentationsbyback-propagating
errors.nature, 323(6088):533–536, 1986.
Claude E Shannon. A mathematical theory of communi-
cation.The Bell system technical journal, 27(3):379–423,
1948.
SamuelSShapiroandRSFrancia. Anapproximateanalysis
of variance test for normality.Journal of the American
statistical Association, 67(337):215–216, 1972.
Samuel Sanford Shapiro and Martin B Wilk. An analy-
sis of variance test for normality (complete samples).
Biometrika, 52(3-4):591–611, 1965.
Ravid Shwartz Ziv and Yann LeCun. To compress or not
to compress—self-supervised learning and information
theory: A review.Entropy, 26(3):252, 2024.
Ravid Shwartz-Ziv, Randall Balestriero, and Yann LeCun.
Whatdowemaximizeinself-supervisedlearning?arXiv
preprint arXiv:2207.10081, 2022.
Bernard W Silverman.Density estimation for statistics and
data analysis. Routledge, 2018.
Oriane Siméoni, Huy V Vo, Maximilian Seitzer, Federico
Baldassarre, Maxime Oquab, Cĳo Jose, Vasil Khalidov,
Marc Szafraniec, Seungeun Yi, Michaël Ramamonjisoa,
et al. Dinov3.arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.10104, 2025.
Yang Song, Sahaj Garg, Jiaxin Shi, and Stefano Ermon.
Sliced score matching: A scalable approach to density
and score estimation. InUncertainty in artificial intelli-
gence, pages 574–584. PMLR, 2020.
Charles Spearman. The proof and measurement of associ-
ation between two things. 1961.
Bharath K Sriperumbudur, Arthur Gretton, Kenji Fuku-
mizu, Bernhard Schölkopf, and Gert RG Lanckriet.
Hilbert space embeddings and metrics on probability
measures.The Journal of Machine Learning Research, 11:
1517–1561, 2010.
Shiliang Sun and Rongqing Huang. An adaptive k-nearest
neighbor algorithm. In2010 seventh international confer-
ence on fuzzy systems and knowledge discovery, volume 1,
pages 91–94. IEEE, 2010.
Richard S Sutton. Dyna, an integrated architecture for
learning, planning, and reacting.ACM Sigart Bulletin, 2
(4):160–163, 1991.
Gábor J Székely and Maria L Rizzo. A new test for multi-
variate normality.Journal of Multivariate Analysis, 93(1):
58–80, 2005.
Ivan Tanasic, Lluís Vilanova, Marc Jordà, Javier Cabezas,
IsaacGelado,NachoNavarro,andWen-meiHwu. Com-
parison based sorting for systems with multiple gpus.
InProceedings of the 6th Workshop on General Purpose
Processor Using Graphics Processing Units, pages 1–11,
2013.
KashviTaunk,SanjuktaDe,SrishtiVerma,andAleenaSwe-
tapadma. A brief review of nearest neighbor algorithm
for learning and classification. In2019 international con-
ference on intelligent computing and control systems (ICCS),
pages 1255–1260. IEEE, 2019.
Vimal Thilak, Chen Huang, Omid Saremi, Laurent Dinh,
HanlinGoh,PreetumNakkiran,JoshuaMSusskind,and
EtaiLittwin. Lidar: Sensinglinearprobingperformance
in joint embedding ssl architectures.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2312.04000, 2023.
Yonglong Tian, Chen Sun, Ben Poole, Dilip Krishnan,
Cordelia Schmid, and Phillip Isola. What makes for
good views for contrastive learning?Advances in neural
information processing systems, 33:6827–6839, 2020.
Yuandong Tian, Xinlei Chen, and Surya Ganguli. Un-
derstanding self-supervised learning dynamics without
contrastive pairs. InInternational Conference on Machine
Learning, pages 10268–10278. PMLR, 2021.
Edward C Tolman. Cognitive maps in rats and men.
Psychological review, 55(4):189, 1948.
Hugues Van Assel, Mark Ibrahim, Tommaso Biancalani,
Aviv Regev, and Randall Balestriero. Joint embedding
vs reconstruction: Provable benefits of latent space
prediction for self supervised learning.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2505.12477, 2025.
Pascal Vincent, Hugo Larochelle, Isabelle Lajoie, Yoshua
Bengio, Pierre-Antoine Manzagol, and Léon Bottou.
Stacked denoising autoencoders: Learning useful rep-
resentations in a deep network with a local denoising
criterion.Journalofmachinelearningresearch,11(12),2010.
Huy V Vo, Vasil Khalidov, Timothée Darcet, Théo
Moutakanni, Nikita Smetanin, Marc Szafraniec, Hugo
Touvron, Camille Couprie, Maxime Oquab, Armand
Joulin,etal. Automaticdatacurationforself-supervised
learning: A clustering-based approach.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2405.15613, 2024.
Hermann Von Helmholtz.Handbuch der physiologischen
Optik, volume 9. L. Voss, 1867.
Richard Von Mises.Probability, statistics, and truth. Courier
Corporation, 1981.
22

--- PAGE 23 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
Xiao Wang, Haoqi Fan, Yuandong Tian, Daisuke Kihara,
and Xinlei Chen. On the importance of asymmetry
for siamese representation learning. InProceedings of
the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition, pages 16570–16579, 2022.
Geoffrey S Watson. Smooth regression analysis.Sankhy¯a:
The Indian Journal of Statistics, Series A, pages 359–372,
1964.
George S Watson. Goodness-of-fit tests on a circle.
Biometrika, 48(1/2):109–114, 1961.
S Weisburg and C Binham. An approximate analysis of
variance test for non-normality suitable for machine
computation.Technometrics, 17:133–134, 1975.
ShichaoZhang,XuelongLi,MingZong,XiaofengZhu,and
Ruili Wang. Efficient knn classification with different
numbersofnearestneighbors.IEEEtransactionsonneural
networks and learning systems, 29(5):1774–1785, 2017.
Yifan Zhang, Zhiquan Tan, Jingqin Yang, Weiran Huang,
and Yang Yuan. Matrix information theory for self-
supervised learning.arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.17326,
2023.
23

--- PAGE 24 ---
LeJEPA
Appendix
A Additional Details on Nonlinear Probing
A.1 kNN Probing
Toallowformoreflexibleevaluationofthepretrainedencoder 𝑓𝜽,itisstandardtoworkwitha 𝑘-NNprober[Taunketal.,
2019], both for regression and classification. We rely on the radial𝑘-NN variation that leverages a sample-dependent
𝑘–improvingperformancefornonuniformdistributionsofsamples[SunandHuang,2010,Zhangetal.,2017,AbuAlfeilat
et al., 2019].
We denote the underlying embedding density as𝑝𝑧∈𝐶 3 with derivatives of order up to3 bounded, and finite Fisher
information and covariance. This regularity condition is fulfilled by current encoders. Theunknownlabels come from
the target function𝜂:R 𝐾→R , assumed𝐶2. We handle classification tasks by setting𝜂(𝒛)=P(𝑌=1|𝒛) . The training
consists of the𝑁 embeddings along with their training labels{(𝒛𝑛,𝜂(𝒛 𝑛))}𝑁
𝑛=1, where we will denote𝒚𝑛 ≜𝜂(𝒛 𝑛). The
prediction for a query vector𝒒is formed as
b𝒚(𝒒):= 1
𝒚(𝒒)
Õ
𝑛:∥𝒛𝑛−𝒒∥≤𝑟0
𝒚𝑛,(kNN)
with 𝒚(𝒒)≜#{𝑛:
𝒛𝑛−𝒒
≤𝑟 0} counting the number of samples within a𝑟-radius ball around𝒒. The radius𝑟 controls
how many neighbors predictions are averaged to form the query’s prediction. As per the linear probing’s lemma. 1, we
can characterize the bias of the estimator Equation (kNN) at a particular query point, as formalized below.
Lemma 4: k-NN Pointwise Bias
The (kNN) estimator has bias at query𝒒given by
Bias(𝒒)=
𝑟2
0
𝑑+2

∇𝜂(𝒒)⊤∇log𝑝 𝑧(𝒒)+ 1
2Δ𝜂(𝒛)

+𝑜(𝑟 2
0),
where the remainder𝑜(𝑟2
0)is uniform in𝒒. (Proof in Section B.3.)
To obtain the integrated bias, i.e., over the distribution of query points, we consider the following two properties.
First, the distribution of query points follow the training distribution, i.e.,𝒒∼𝑝 𝑧, second, target function𝜂 has gradient
which is mean-zero and isotropic withE

∇𝜂(𝒛)∇𝜂(𝒛)⊤
=𝜏 2
𝑔𝐼𝑑 with 𝜏2
𝑔∈(0,∞) uniformly in𝒛. We also have any finite
scalar-constraint on the covariance of the embeddings such asTr(Σ)=𝑐or∥Σ∥𝐹 =𝑐for a finite constant𝑐.

--- PAGE 25 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
Theorem 7: k-NN isotropic Gaussian Optimality
The integrated squared bias of (kNN) satisfies
E𝒛

Bias(𝒛)2
=
𝑟4
0
(𝐾+2) 2𝜏2
𝑔𝐽(𝑝)+𝑂(𝑟 4
0),
and the isotropic Gaussian is the unique minimizer of the integrated square bias. (Proof in Section B.4.)
As a result, we now have a unique minimizer for the optimal embedding density for both the linear and k-NN probes.
A.2 Kernel Probing
As an alternative to (kNN), it is also common to leverage kernel methods, which we consider in this section.
Consider a kernel𝐾:R 𝐾→Rwith the following standard properties
∫
R𝑑
𝐾(𝑢)𝑑𝑢=1,(normalized)
∫
R𝑑
𝑢𝐾(𝑢)𝑑𝑢=0,(symmetric)
∫
R𝑑
𝑢𝑢⊤𝐾(𝑢)𝑑𝑢=𝜇 2(𝐾)𝐼𝑑,(isotropic)
𝑅(𝐾)≜
∫
R𝑑
𝐾(𝑢) 2𝑑𝑢<∞,(finite roughness)
for some𝜇2(𝐾)∈(0,∞) , some bandwidthℎ>0 and denoting𝐾ℎ(𝑡)≜ℎ −𝑑𝐾(𝑡/ℎ), we remind the reader that the
Nadaraya-Watson estimator, introduced in Nadaraya [1964], Watson [1964], at a query𝒒∈R𝑑 is
b𝒚(𝒒)≜
˝𝑁
𝑛=1𝐾ℎ(𝒒−𝒙 𝑛)𝒚𝑛
˝𝑁
𝑛=1𝐾ℎ(𝒒−𝒙 𝑛)
.(NW)
Similarly to(kNN), we will see that the performance of(NW) depends crucially on the distribution of the training
points. We have access to our dataset of inputs from𝑝𝑧 and for each sample𝒛𝑛 the corresponding target is given
from𝜂(𝒛𝑛)=E[𝑌 𝑛|𝒛 𝑛]. We also denote the corresponding conditional variance of the target function at that point as
𝑣(𝑥)=V ar(𝑌 𝑖|𝑋 𝑖 =𝑥) . We follow the regularity conditions of the k-NN probing derivations and additionally assume
that𝑝 has sufficiently light tails so that for each coordinate𝑗, lim∥𝑥∥→∞𝑝(𝑥)=0 and lim∥𝑥∥→∞𝑥𝑗𝑝(𝑥)=0 . We first derive
the pointwise bias and variance forb𝒚(𝒒).
Lemma 5: Kernel Bias and Variance
For any fixed𝒒∈R 𝑑 with𝑝(𝒒)>0, asℎ→0and𝑛ℎ 𝑑→∞,
Bias

b𝒚(𝒒)

= ℎ2𝜇2(𝐾)
2

Δ𝒚(𝒒)+2∇𝒚(𝒒) ⊤∇log𝑝(𝒒)

+𝑜(ℎ 2),
V ar

b𝒚(𝒒)

= 𝑅(𝐾)
𝑛ℎ𝑑
𝑣(𝒒)
𝑝(𝒒)+𝑜
 
(𝑛ℎ𝑑)−1
.
The𝑜(·)terms are uniform over compact sets where𝑝is bounded away from zero. (Proof in Section B.5.)
We now show that, under a fixed mean and total-covariance constraint on𝑝𝑧, the isotropic Gaussian distribution
uniquely minimizes the bias and variance of the kernel regression estimator at any test point. We restrict the smoothness
class of the target function using
ℳ(𝐿,𝐵)≜
n
𝑚∈𝐶 2(R𝑑):∥∇𝒚(𝒒)∥≤𝐿,
|Δ𝒚(𝒒)|≤𝐵,∀𝒒∈R 𝑑
o
,
25

--- PAGE 26 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
allowing us to formalize below the worst case integrated bias and the optimal density for𝑧.
Theorem 8: Kernel isotropic Gaussian Optimality
The integrated squared bias of (NW) satisfies
sup
𝑚∈ℳ(𝐿,𝐵)
E𝑧

Bias

b𝒚(𝒛)

≤
ℎ2𝜇2(𝐾)
2
 2
2𝐵2 +8𝐿 2𝐽(𝑝)

+𝑜(ℎ 4),
and the integrated variance is independent of𝑝. Among all densities𝑝 on R𝑑 with total-variance constrained, e.g.,Tr(Σ)=𝑐 , the
isotropic Gaussian is the unique minimizer. (Proof in Section B.7.)
B Proofs
B.1 Proof of lemma. 1
Proof. Our proof follows standard derivations when it comes to studying the bias of an estimator. Let’s consider the
ridge regression problem (Tikhonov regularized least squares estimator) with close form estimator
ˆ𝜷=(X 𝑇X+𝜆 wdI)−1X𝑇Y.(9)
The labels are formed from the ground truth parameter𝛽true with centered error, as perY=X𝜷 true+𝜺 where E[𝜺]=0 .
We can now look at the bias of our estimator given by
Bias(ˆ𝜷)=E[ ˆ𝜷]−𝜷 true
=(X 𝑇X+𝜆 wdI)−1X𝑇X𝜷true−𝜷 true
=−𝜆 wd(X𝑇X+𝜆 wdI)−1𝜷true
=−𝜆 wdQ(𝚲+𝜆I) −1Q𝑇 𝜷true
We will now compare that bias when𝑿has isotropic and anisotropic covariance with same total variance:
𝜆1+𝜆 2+···+𝜆 𝑝
𝑝 =¯𝜆.(10)
For any anisotropic covariance matrix of𝑿, denote by𝒒1 the eigenvector with smallest eigenvalue, and let’s denote by
𝜅 >0a positive constant. We now define
𝜷true=𝜅·q 𝑝,(11)
leading to
∥Bias(ˆ𝜷)∥isotropic= 𝜆wd
¯𝜆+𝜆 wd
∥𝜷true∥,
∥Bias(ˆ𝜷)∥non-isotropic= 𝜆wd
𝜆𝑝+𝜆 wd
∥𝜷true∥
Since𝜆 𝑝 <¯𝜆(strict inequality when not isotropic):
𝜆wd
𝜆𝑝+𝜆 wd
> 𝜆wd
¯𝜆+𝜆 wd
we obtain that
∥Bias(ˆ𝜷)∥non-isotropic >∥Bias(ˆ𝜷)∥isotropic
Asaresult,wheneverthecovariancematrixof 𝑿 isanisotropic,therewillbedownstreamtasksforwhichtheestimator
bias is increased compared to having isotropic covariance matrix. Anisotropic covariance structure thus amplifies
regularization bias when the true parameter vector aligns unfavorably with the data’s covariance structure.□
26

--- PAGE 27 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
B.2 Proof of lemma. 2
Proof. We use the same formula as in Section B.1 with𝜆wd=0 . We first see that the estimator is unbiased. We will now
leverage that result to compute the covariance matrix of the estimator
Var(ˆ𝜷|X)=E[( ˆ𝜷−𝜷)( ˆ𝜷−𝜷) 𝑇|X]
=E[(X 𝑇X)−1X𝑇 𝜺𝜺𝑇X(X𝑇X)−1|X]
=(X 𝑇X)−1X𝑇E[𝜺𝜺𝑇|X]X(X𝑇X)−1
=(X 𝑇X)−1X𝑇(𝜎2I𝑛)X(X𝑇X)−1
=𝜎 2(X𝑇X)−1
leading to the total variance
tr(Var(ˆ𝜷))=𝜎 2tr(G−1)=𝜎 2
𝑝Õ
𝑗=1
1
𝜆𝑗
where we used the eigendecomposition:
G=Q𝚲Q 𝑇
The function𝑓(𝑥)= 1
𝑥 is strictly convex on(0,∞)allowing us to leverage Jensen’s Inequality:
1
𝐾
𝐾Õ
𝑘=1
1
𝜆𝑘
> 1
1
𝐾
˝𝐾
𝑗=1𝜆𝑘
⇐⇒ 1
𝐾
𝐾Õ
𝑘=1
1
𝜆𝑘
> 1
𝐾
𝐾Õ
𝑘=1
1
1
𝐾
˝𝐾
𝑗=1𝜆𝑘
⇐⇒
𝐾Õ
𝑘=1
1
𝜆𝑘
>
𝐾Õ
𝑘=1
1
1
𝐾
˝𝐾
𝑗=1𝜆𝑘
⇐⇒tr(Var(ˆ𝜷))aniso >tr(Var(ˆ𝜷))iso
The inequality is strict whenever the eigenvalues{𝜆𝑗}𝑝
𝑗=1 are not all equal.□
B.3 Proof of lemma. 4
Proof.Under PPP, conditional expectations ofb𝜂(𝑥)coincide with the normalized ball average
E

b𝜂(𝑥)

=
∫
B(0,𝑟 0)𝜂(𝑥+𝑧)𝑝(𝑥+𝑧)𝑑𝑧
∫
B(0,𝑟 0)𝑝(𝑥+𝑧)𝑑𝑧
to second order in𝑟0,
which is the key surrogate used below.Ball integrals.For computations we use (by symmetry) for any𝑟>0:
∫
B(0,𝑟)
𝑧𝑑𝑧=0,
∫
B(0,𝑟)
𝑧𝑧⊤𝑑𝑧= Vol𝑑+2
𝑑+2 𝐼𝑑,
∫
B(0,𝑟)
∥𝑧∥2𝑑𝑧= 𝑑Vol𝑑+2
𝑑+2 .
Fix𝑥∈R 𝑑 and write𝑧∈B(0,𝑟 0) for local displacements. Assume𝑝∈𝐶 3,𝜂∈𝐶 2 with bounded derivatives on the
region of interest, and expand a second-order Taylor expansion:
𝑝(𝑥+𝑧)=𝑝(𝑥)+∇𝑝(𝑥) ⊤𝑧+ 1
2𝑧⊤𝐻𝑝(𝑥)𝑧+𝑂(∥𝑧∥ 3),
𝜂(𝑥+𝑧)=𝜂(𝑥)+∇𝜂(𝑥) ⊤𝑧+ 1
2𝑧⊤𝐻𝜂(𝑥)𝑧+𝑂(∥𝑧∥ 3),
with remainders satisfying|𝑅𝜂(𝑥;𝑧)|≤𝐶 𝜂∥𝑧∥3 and|𝑅𝑝(𝑥;𝑧)|≤𝐶 𝑝∥𝑧∥3 uniformly for∥𝑧∥≤𝑟 0. Using the ball identities
27

--- PAGE 28 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
∫
𝐵(0,𝑟) 𝑧𝑑𝑧=0and
∫
𝐵(0,𝑟) 𝑧𝑧⊤𝑑𝑧= 𝑣𝑑𝑟𝑑+2
𝑑+2 𝐼𝑑 and collecting terms up to order𝑟𝑑+2
0 , we simplify the denominator as
𝒟(𝑥)≜
∫
B(0,𝑟 0)
𝑝(𝑥+𝑧)𝑑𝑧
=
∫
B(0,𝑟 0)
h
𝑝(𝑥)+∇𝑝(𝑥) ⊤𝑧+ 1
2𝑧⊤𝐻𝑝(𝑥)𝑧+𝑅 𝑝(𝑥;𝑧)
i
𝑑𝑧
=Vol𝑑
0𝑝(𝑥)+ Vol𝑑+2
0
2(𝑑+2) tr
 
𝐻𝑝(𝑥)

+𝑂(𝑟 𝑑+3
0 ),
since
∫
𝑧𝑑𝑧=0and
∫
𝑧⊤𝐻𝑝𝑧𝑑𝑧=tr(𝐻𝑝)
𝑣𝑑𝑟𝑑+2
0
𝑑+2 and the denominator as
𝒩(𝑥)≜
∫
B(0,𝑟 0)
𝜂(𝑥+𝑧)𝑝(𝑥+𝑧)𝑑𝑧
=
∫ h
𝜂(𝑥)+∇𝜂(𝑥) ⊤𝑧+ 1
2𝑧⊤𝐻𝜂(𝑥)𝑧
ih
𝑝(𝑥)+∇𝑝(𝑥) ⊤𝑧+ 1
2𝑧⊤𝐻𝑝(𝑥)𝑧
i
𝑑𝑧+𝑂(𝑟 𝑑+3
0 )
=𝜂(𝑥)𝑝(𝑥)𝑣 𝑑𝑟𝑑
0+𝜂(𝑥)
𝑣𝑑𝑟𝑑+2
0
2(𝑑+2) tr
 
𝐻𝑝(𝑥)

+
𝑣𝑑𝑟𝑑+2
0
𝑑+2 ∇𝜂(𝑥)·∇𝑝(𝑥)+
𝑣𝑑𝑟𝑑+2
0
2(𝑑+2) 𝑝(𝑥)tr
 
𝐻𝜂(𝑥)

+𝑂(𝑟 𝑑+3
0 ).
Cubic terms vanish by symmetry, and quartic terms are𝑂(𝑟𝑑+4
0 ). Subtract𝜂(𝑥)𝒟(𝑥)to obtain the bias numerator:
𝒩(𝑥)−𝜂(𝑥)𝒟(𝑥)=
𝑣𝑑𝑟𝑑+2
0
𝑑+2

∇𝜂(𝑥)·∇𝑝(𝑥)+ 1
2𝑝(𝑥)Δ𝜂(𝑥)

+𝑂(𝑟 𝑑+3
0 ).
Write𝒟(𝑥)=𝑣 𝑑𝑟𝑑
0𝑝(𝑥)
 
1+𝛼(𝑥)𝑟 2
0+𝑂(𝑟 3
0)

where𝛼(𝑥):= 1
2(𝑑+2)𝑝(𝑥) tr(𝐻𝑝(𝑥)). Then
𝒩(𝑥)
𝒟(𝑥)−𝜂(𝑥)=
𝑣𝑑𝑟𝑑+2
0
𝑑+2
 
∇𝜂·∇𝑝+ 1
2𝑝Δ𝜂

+𝑂(𝑟 𝑑+3
0 )
𝑣𝑑𝑟𝑑
0𝑝
 
1+𝛼𝑟 2
0+𝑂(𝑟 3
0)

=
𝑟2
0
𝑑+2
∇𝜂·∇𝑝
𝑝 + 1
2Δ𝜂
 
1−𝛼𝑟 2
0+𝑂(𝑟 3
0)

+𝑂(𝑟 3
0)
=
𝑟2
0
𝑑+2

∇𝜂(𝑥)·∇log𝑝(𝑥)+ 1
2Δ𝜂(𝑥)

+𝑜(𝑟 2
0),
uniformly on𝒦. This gives the bias formula
E

b𝜂(𝑥)

−𝜂(𝑥)=
𝑟2
0
𝑑+2

∇𝜂(𝑥)·∇log𝑝(𝑥)+ 1
2Δ𝜂(𝑥)

+𝑜(𝑟 2
0),
completing the proof. □
B.4 Proof of thm. 7
Proof.Recall from Section B.3 that the bias term as sample𝒙is given by
Bias(𝒙)=
𝑟2
0
𝑑+2

∇𝜂(𝑥)·∇log𝑝(𝑥)

+
𝑟2
0
2(𝑑+2) Δ𝜂(𝑥)+𝑜(𝑟 2
0)
=
𝑟2
0
𝑑+2
 
𝐴(𝑥)+𝐶(𝑥)

+𝑜(𝑟 2
0),
28

--- PAGE 29 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
where we defined𝐴(𝑥)≜∇𝜂(𝑥)·∇log𝑝(𝑥) and𝐶(𝑥)≜ 1
2Δ𝜂(𝑥). We now square and take expectation of𝑋∼𝑝 and the
isotropic gradient prior
E

Bias(𝑋) 2
=E

 
𝑟2
0
𝑑+2
! 2
 
𝐴(𝑥) 2+2𝐴(𝑥)𝐶(𝑥)+𝐶(𝑥) 2
+𝑜(𝑟 4
0)

(12)
=
 
𝑟2
0
𝑑+2
! 2 n
E

𝐴(𝑋) 2
|     {z     }
score-gradient term
+2E

𝐴(𝑋)𝐶(𝑋)

|             {z             }
cross term
+E

𝐶(𝑋) 2
|     {z     }
curvature term
o
+𝑜(𝑟 4
0).(13)
We will derive each term separately, recalling that we assume an isotropic gradient prior for𝜂, i.e.,E

∇𝜂(𝑥)

=0 and
E

∇𝜂(𝑥)∇𝜂(𝑥)⊤
=𝜏 2
𝑔𝐼𝑑, for some𝜏2
𝑔∈(0,∞).
1) The score-gradient termE[𝐴(𝑋)2].Using𝑣(𝑥):=∇log𝑝(𝑥)for brevity:
E

𝐴(𝑋) 2
=E𝑋

E𝜂[𝐴(𝑋) 2]

=E𝑋

E𝜂[
 
∇𝜂(𝑥)⊤𝑣(𝑥)
 2]

=E𝑋

E𝜂[∇𝜂(𝑥)⊤

𝑣(𝑥)𝑣(𝑥)⊤

∇𝜂(𝑥)]

=E𝑋

E𝜂[tr

𝑣(𝑥)𝑣(𝑥)⊤∇𝜂(𝑥)∇𝜂(𝑥)⊤

]

=E𝑋

tr

𝑣(𝑥)𝑣(𝑥)⊤E𝜂[∇𝜂(𝑥)∇𝜂(𝑥)⊤]

=E𝑋

𝜏2
𝑔∥𝑣(𝑥)∥ 2
=𝜏2
𝑔E𝑋

∥𝑣(𝑋)∥ 2
=𝜏2
𝑔
∫
R𝑑
∥∇log𝑝(𝑥)∥ 2𝑝(𝑥)𝑑𝑥
recovering the Fisher-information functional𝐽(𝑝), scaled by𝜏2
𝑔
2) The cross term2E[𝐴(𝑋)𝐶(𝑋)].We have
𝐴(𝑥)𝐶(𝑥)= 1
2
 
∇𝜂(𝑥)⊤𝑣(𝑥)

Δ𝜂(𝑥).
Under the prior,∇𝜂 is mean-zero and isotropic; if, additionally,Δ𝜂 is uncorrelated with∇𝜂 and has zero mean (or is
bounded and mean-zero after centering), thenE𝜂[𝐴(𝑥)𝐶(𝑥)]=0 . If one doesnotassume the orthogonality/vanishing
covariance above, thenE[𝐴(𝑋)𝐶(𝑋)] is a finite constant (depending on the joint law of derivatives of𝜂), and the cross
term contributes  
𝑟2
0
𝑑+2
! 2
·2E[𝐴(𝑋)𝐶(𝑋)]=𝑂(𝑟 4
0),
not𝑜(𝑟 4
0). In that general case, the leading𝑝-dependent term ofE[Bias(𝑋)2]is still thescore-gradient𝜏 2
𝑔𝐽(𝑝).
3) The curvature termE[𝐶(𝑋)2].
E

𝐶(𝑋) 2
=E𝑋

E𝜂[𝐶(𝑋) 2]

= 1
4 E𝑋

E𝜂[(Δ𝜂(𝑋)) 2
which is independent of𝑝, henceE

𝐶(𝑋) 2
=𝑂(1)
29

--- PAGE 30 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
Putting it together.Substituting into (13):
E

Bias(𝑋) 2
=
 
𝑟2
0
𝑑+2
! 2 n
𝜏2
𝑔𝐽(𝑝)+𝑂(1)
o
+𝑜(𝑟 4
0)
=
𝑟4
0
(𝑑+2) 2𝜏2
𝑔𝐽(𝑝)+𝑂(𝑟 4
0),
We show that, among all mean-zero distributions𝑝 on R𝑑 with a givenscalarconstraint on the covariance (trace,
determinant, Frobenius norm, or spectral radius), the density that minimizes the Fisher-information functional
𝐽(𝑝):=
∫
R𝑑
∥∇log𝑝(𝑥)∥ 2𝑝(𝑥)𝑑𝑥
is the Gaussian withisotropiccovariance satisfying the same scalar constraint. We proceed in two steps: (i) for fixed
covariance matrixΣ≻0 ,𝐽(𝑝) is minimized by the Gaussian𝒩(0,Σ) and attains the valuetr(Σ−1); (ii) for each scalar
constraint,tr(Σ−1)is minimized byΣ=𝑠𝐼 𝑑 for the appropriate scalar𝑠>0.
Lemma 6: Special case: Recovery of VCReg
Let𝑝be a mean-zero probability density onR𝑑 with covarianceΣ=E[𝑋𝑋 ⊤]≻0. Then
𝐽(𝑝) ≥tr(Σ−1),
with equality if and only if𝑝=𝒩(0,Σ).
Proof.Consider the location family𝑝𝜃(𝑥):=𝑝(𝑥−𝜃),𝜃∈R 𝑑. Its Fisher-information matrix at𝜃is
ℐ(𝜃)=E

∇𝜃 log𝑝 𝜃(𝑋)∇𝜃 log𝑝 𝜃(𝑋)⊤
=E

∇log𝑝(𝑋)∇log𝑝(𝑋) ⊤
,
so that𝐽(𝑝)=trℐ(𝜃) . The estimator𝑇(𝑋)≡𝑋 is unbiased for𝜃 under𝑝𝜃, withCov(𝑇)=Σ . The matrix Cramér–Rao
bound givesCov(𝑇)⪰ℐ(𝜃) −1, i.e.,ℐ(𝜃)⪰Σ −1. Taking traces yields𝐽(𝑝)≥tr(Σ −1). Equality in the matrix Cramér–Rao
bound holds if and only if the score is anaffinefunction of𝑋−𝜃 , i.e.,∇log𝑝 𝜃(𝑋)=𝐴(𝑋−𝜃) a.s. for some matrix𝐴;
integrating this identity shows𝑝𝜃 is Gaussian with precision matrix−𝐴, hence𝑝=𝒩(0,Σ).□
Step 2: Optimizing over covariance shapes under scalar constraints
Write the eigenvalues ofΣas𝜆1,...,𝜆 𝑑 >0. Then
tr(Σ−1)=
𝑑Õ
𝑖=1
1
𝜆𝑖
.
We now solvemin˝
𝑖 1/𝜆𝑖 under each scalar constraint; in every case the minimum is attained when all𝜆𝑖 are equal, i.e.,
Σ=𝑠𝐼 𝑑.
(a) Trace constraint.Giventr(Σ)= ˝
𝑖𝜆𝑖 =𝑡>0, by Cauchy–Schwarz,
 𝑑Õ
𝑖=1
1
𝜆𝑖
!  𝑑Õ
𝑖=1
𝜆𝑖
!
≥
 𝑑Õ
𝑖=1
1
! 2
=𝑑 2,
with equality if and only if𝜆1=···=𝜆 𝑑. Hence
min
Σ≻0: tr(Σ)=𝑡
tr(Σ−1)= 𝑑2
𝑡 ,attained atΣ= 𝑡
𝑑𝐼𝑑.
30

--- PAGE 31 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
(b) Determinant constraint.Given det(Σ)= ˛
𝑖𝜆𝑖 =𝛿 >0 , set𝜇𝑖 :=1/𝜆 𝑖 so that ˛
𝑖𝜇𝑖 =𝛿 −1. By the AM–GM
inequality,
1
𝑑
𝑑Õ
𝑖=1
𝜇𝑖 ≥
 𝑑Ö
𝑖=1
𝜇𝑖
! 1/𝑑
=𝛿−1/𝑑,
with equality iff𝜇1=···=𝜇 𝑑, i.e.,𝜆1=···=𝜆 𝑑. Thus
min
Σ≻0: det(Σ)=𝛿
tr(Σ−1)=𝑑𝛿 −1/𝑑,attained atΣ=𝛿 1/𝑑𝐼𝑑.
(c) Frobenius-norm constraint.Given ∥Σ∥2
𝐹 = ˝
𝑖𝜆2
𝑖 =𝑐 2 >0 , minimize 𝑓(𝜆):= ˝
𝑖 1/𝜆𝑖 over 𝜆𝑖 >0 subject to
𝑔(𝜆):= ˝
𝑖𝜆2
𝑖 =𝑐 2. The Lagrangian
ℒ(𝜆,𝜈)=
𝑑Õ
𝑖=1
1
𝜆𝑖
+𝜈
 𝑑Õ
𝑖=1
𝜆2
𝑖−𝑐 2
!
has first-order conditions−𝜆−2
𝑖 +2𝜈𝜆 𝑖 =0 for all𝑖, i.e.,𝜆3
𝑖 = 1
2𝜈, so all𝜆𝑖 are equal. Imposing˝𝜆2
𝑖 =𝑐 2 yields𝜆𝑖 =𝑐/
√
𝑑,
hence
min
Σ≻0:∥Σ∥ 𝐹=𝑐
tr(Σ−1)=
𝑑Õ
𝑖=1
1
𝜆𝑖
= 𝑑3/2
𝑐 ,attained atΣ= 𝑐√
𝑑
𝐼𝑑.
(d) Spectral-radius constraint.Let the spectral radius be constrained by𝜌(Σ)=max 𝑖𝜆𝑖≤𝑟 for some𝑟>0 . Since
𝑥↦→1/𝑥is strictly decreasing on(0,∞),
𝑑Õ
𝑖=1
1
𝜆𝑖
≥
𝑑Õ
𝑖=1
1
𝑟 = 𝑑
𝑟,
with equality if and only if𝜆𝑖 =𝑟for all𝑖. Therefore
min
Σ≻0:𝜌(Σ)≤𝑟
tr(Σ−1)= 𝑑
𝑟,attained atΣ=𝑟𝐼 𝑑.
(The same conclusion holds if the constraint is𝜌(Σ)=𝑟, since one may take all eigenvalues equal to𝑟.)
Conclusion: Isotropic Gaussian is optimal
Combining Lemma 6 with the solutions (a)–(d), we obtain:
31

--- PAGE 32 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
Theorem 9: Special case: Recovery of VCReg
Fix one of the following scalar covariance constraints for a mean-zero distribution𝑝onR𝑑:
•trace:tr(Cov(𝑋))=𝑡,
•determinant:det(Cov(𝑋))=𝛿,
•Frobenius norm:∥Cov(𝑋)∥ 𝐹 =𝑐,
•spectral radius upper bound:𝜌(Cov(𝑋))≤𝑟.
Then the Fisher-information functional𝐽(𝑝) is minimized over all such𝑝 by the isotropic Gaussian𝑝𝐺 =𝒩(0,𝑠𝐼 𝑑)with𝑠 chosen to
satisfy the constraint. The minimal values are:
trace𝑡:𝐽 min= 𝑑2
𝑡 , 𝑠= 𝑡
𝑑,
determinant𝛿:𝐽 min=𝑑𝛿−1/𝑑, 𝑠=𝛿 1/𝑑,
Frobenius𝑐:𝐽 min= 𝑑3/2
𝑐 , 𝑠= 𝑐√
𝑑
,
spectral radius𝑟:𝐽 min= 𝑑
𝑟, 𝑠=𝑟.
In each case,𝑝𝐺 is the unique minimizer (up to null sets).
Proof. For any admissible𝑝 with covarianceΣ, Lemma 6 gives𝐽(𝑝)≥tr(Σ −1). Minimizing the right-hand side under
the stated scalar constraint yieldsΣ=𝑠𝐼 𝑑 by the calculations in (a)–(d). Equality in Lemma 6 holds if and only if𝑝 is
Gaussian with that covariance, hence𝑝𝐺 uniquely attains the bound.□
□
B.5 Proof of lemma. 5
Proof.Write the numerator and denominator ofb𝑚(𝑥)as
𝐵𝑛(𝑥):=
𝑛Õ
𝑖=1
𝐾ℎ(𝑥−𝑋 𝑖)𝑌𝑖, 𝐴 𝑛(𝑥):=
𝑛Õ
𝑖=1
𝐾ℎ(𝑥−𝑋 𝑖),
so thatb𝑚(𝑥)= 𝐵𝑛(𝑥)
𝐴𝑛(𝑥).Bias.Compute expectations using independence and change of variables. For the denominator,
E[𝐴𝑛(𝑥)]=𝑛E

𝐾ℎ(𝑥−𝑋)

=𝑛
∫
R𝑑
ℎ−𝑑𝐾
𝑥−𝑢
ℎ

𝑝(𝑢)𝑑𝑢
=𝑛
∫
R𝑑
𝐾(𝑡)𝑝(𝑥−ℎ𝑡)𝑑𝑡(𝑡:=(𝑥−𝑢)/ℎ)
=𝑛
∫
R𝑑
𝐾(𝑡)

𝑝(𝑥)−ℎ𝑡 ⊤∇𝑝(𝑥)+ ℎ2
2 𝑡⊤∇2𝑝(𝑥)𝑡+𝑜(ℎ 2)

𝑑𝑡
=𝑛

𝑝(𝑥)+ ℎ2
2
∫
𝑡⊤∇2𝑝(𝑥)𝑡𝐾(𝑡)𝑑𝑡
|                   {z                   }
=𝜇2(𝐾)Δ𝑝(𝑥)
+𝑜(ℎ 2)

,
32

--- PAGE 33 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
where we used symmetry
∫
𝑡𝐾(𝑡)𝑑𝑡=0 and isotropy
∫
𝑡𝑡⊤𝐾(𝑡)𝑑𝑡=𝜇 2(𝐾)𝐼𝑑, which implies
∫
𝑡⊤∇2𝑝(𝑥)𝑡𝐾(𝑡)𝑑𝑡=
𝜇2(𝐾)tr(∇2𝑝(𝑥))=𝜇 2(𝐾)Δ𝑝(𝑥). Similarly, for the numerator,
E[𝐵𝑛(𝑥)]=𝑛E

𝐾ℎ(𝑥−𝑋)𝑌

=𝑛
∫
𝐾(𝑡)(𝑚𝑝)(𝑥−ℎ𝑡)𝑑𝑡
=𝑛
∫
𝐾(𝑡)

(𝑚𝑝)(𝑥)−ℎ𝑡 ⊤∇(𝑚𝑝)(𝑥)+ ℎ2
2 𝑡⊤∇2(𝑚𝑝)(𝑥)𝑡+𝑜(ℎ 2)

𝑑𝑡
=𝑛

𝑚(𝑥)𝑝(𝑥)+ ℎ2
2 𝜇2(𝐾)tr
 
∇2(𝑚𝑝)(𝑥)

+𝑜(ℎ 2)

=𝑛

𝑚(𝑥)𝑝(𝑥)+ ℎ2𝜇2(𝐾)
2
 
𝑝Δ𝑚+𝑚Δ𝑝+2∇𝑚 ⊤∇𝑝

(𝑥)+𝑜(ℎ 2)

,
where the last step uses the fact thattr
 
∇2(𝑚𝑝)

=𝑝Δ𝑚+𝑚Δ𝑝+2∇𝑚 ⊤∇𝑝 by the product rule and symmetry of mixed
derivatives.
Now expand the ratioE[𝐵𝑛(𝑥)]
E[𝐴𝑛(𝑥)] using the identity
𝑎0+ℎ 2𝑎2+𝑜(ℎ 2)
𝑏0+ℎ 2𝑏2+𝑜(ℎ 2) = 𝑎0
𝑏0
+ℎ 2𝑎2𝑏0−𝑎 0𝑏2
𝑏2
0
+𝑜(ℎ 2),
with𝑎 0=𝑚(𝑥)𝑝(𝑥),𝑎 2= 𝜇2(𝐾)
2
 
𝑝Δ𝑚+𝑚Δ𝑝+2∇𝑚 ⊤∇𝑝

(𝑥),𝑏 0=𝑝(𝑥), and𝑏 2= 𝜇2(𝐾)
2 Δ𝑝(𝑥). This yields
E[𝐵𝑛(𝑥)]
E[𝐴𝑛(𝑥)] =𝑚(𝑥)+ ℎ2𝜇2(𝐾)
2
 
𝑝Δ𝑚+𝑚Δ𝑝+2∇𝑚 ⊤∇𝑝

𝑝−𝑚𝑝Δ𝑝
𝑝2

𝑥
+𝑜(ℎ 2)
=𝑚(𝑥)+ ℎ2𝜇2(𝐾)
2

Δ𝑚(𝑥)+2∇𝑚(𝑥) ⊤∇𝑝(𝑥)
𝑝(𝑥)

+𝑜(ℎ 2),
whichrecoversourstatement.Variance.Linearize b𝑚(𝑥)=𝐵 𝑛(𝑥)/𝐴𝑛(𝑥)around(E[𝐵𝑛(𝑥)],E[𝐴 𝑛(𝑥)])anduseindependence.
To leading order,
V ar[b𝑚(𝑥)]≈ V ar[𝐵𝑛(𝑥)]
(E[𝐴𝑛(𝑥)]) 2.
Compute
V ar[𝐵𝑛(𝑥)]=
𝑛Õ
𝑖=1
V ar
 
𝐾ℎ(𝑥−𝑋 𝑖)𝑌𝑖

(independence)
=𝑛E

𝐾ℎ(𝑥−𝑋) 2V ar(𝑌|𝑋)

=𝑛E

𝐾ℎ(𝑥−𝑋) 2𝑣(𝑋)

=𝑛
∫
ℎ−2𝑑𝐾
𝑥−𝑢
ℎ
 2
𝑣(𝑢)𝑝(𝑢)𝑑𝑢
=𝑛ℎ −𝑑
∫
𝐾(𝑡) 2𝑣(𝑥−ℎ𝑡)𝑝(𝑥−ℎ𝑡)𝑑𝑡=𝑛ℎ −𝑑

𝑅(𝐾)𝑣(𝑥)𝑝(𝑥)+𝑜(1)

,
while
E[𝐴𝑛(𝑥)]=𝑛
 
𝑝(𝑥)+𝑜(1)

.
Therefore,
V ar[b𝑚(𝑥)]≈ 𝑛ℎ−𝑑𝑅(𝐾)𝑣(𝑥)𝑝(𝑥)
𝑛2𝑝(𝑥) 2 = 𝑅(𝐾)
𝑛ℎ𝑑
𝑣(𝑥)
𝑝(𝑥)+𝑜
 
(𝑛ℎ𝑑)−1
,
completing the proof. □
B.6 Proof of Equation (5) to Equation (6)
Proof.Let¯z= 1
𝑉𝑔
˝𝑉𝑔
𝑣=1 z𝑛,𝑣 denote the mean of the first𝑉𝑔 vectors.
33

--- PAGE 34 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
We prove that:
1
𝑉𝑔
𝑉𝑔Õ
𝑣=1
1
𝑉
𝑉Õ
𝑣′=1
∥z𝑛,𝑣−z𝑛,𝑣′∥2
2= 1
𝑉
𝑉Õ
𝑣′=1
∥¯z−z𝑛,𝑣′∥2
2 (14)
Expanding the left-hand side:
LHS= 1
𝑉𝑔𝑉
𝑉𝑔Õ
𝑣=1
𝑉Õ
𝑣′=1
∥z𝑛,𝑣−z𝑛,𝑣′∥2
2 (15)
= 1
𝑉𝑔𝑉
𝑉𝑔Õ
𝑣=1
𝑉Õ
𝑣′=1
 
∥z𝑛,𝑣∥2
2−2z𝑇
𝑛,𝑣 z𝑛,𝑣′+∥z𝑛,𝑣′∥2
2

(16)
= 1
𝑉𝑔
𝑉𝑔Õ
𝑣=1
∥z𝑛,𝑣∥2
2− 2
𝑉𝑔𝑉
𝑉𝑔Õ
𝑣=1
𝑉Õ
𝑣′=1
z𝑇
𝑛,𝑣 z𝑛,𝑣′+ 1
𝑉
𝑉Õ
𝑣′=1
∥z𝑛,𝑣′∥2
2 (17)
= 1
𝑉𝑔
𝑉𝑔Õ
𝑣=1
∥z𝑛,𝑣∥2
2− 2
𝑉¯z𝑇
𝑉Õ
𝑣′=1
z𝑛,𝑣′+ 1
𝑉
𝑉Õ
𝑣′=1
∥z𝑛,𝑣′∥2
2 (18)
Expanding the right-hand side:
RHS= 1
𝑉
𝑉Õ
𝑣′=1
 
∥¯z∥2
2−2¯z𝑇z𝑛,𝑣′+∥z𝑛,𝑣′∥2
2

(19)
=∥¯z∥2
2− 2
𝑉¯z𝑇
𝑉Õ
𝑣′=1
z𝑛,𝑣′+ 1
𝑉
𝑉Õ
𝑣′=1
∥z𝑛,𝑣′∥2
2 (20)
To complete the proof, we verify that:
1
𝑉𝑔
𝑉𝑔Õ
𝑣=1
∥z𝑛,𝑣∥2
2=∥¯z∥2
2 (21)
Expanding the right-hand side:
∥¯z∥2
2=

1
𝑉𝑔
𝑉𝑔Õ
𝑣=1
z𝑛,𝑣

2
2
(22)
= 1
𝑉 2
𝑔
𝑉𝑔Õ
𝑣=1
𝑉𝑔Õ
𝑣′′=1
z𝑇
𝑛,𝑣 z𝑛,𝑣′′ (23)
= 1
𝑉𝑔
𝑉𝑔Õ
𝑣=1
∥z𝑛,𝑣∥2
2 (24)
Therefore, LHS = RHS, completing the proof.□
B.7 Proof of thm. 8
Proof.For each𝑥,
Bias[b𝑚(𝑥)]= ℎ2𝜇2(𝐾)
2

Δ𝑚(𝑥)+2∇𝑚(𝑥) ⊤∇log𝑝(𝑥)

+𝑜(ℎ 2).
34

--- PAGE 35 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
Square and integrate against𝑝(𝑥):
ℬ2(ℎ;𝑝,𝑚)=
ℎ2𝜇2(𝐾)
2
 2 ∫ 
Δ𝑚(𝑥)+2∇𝑚(𝑥) ⊤∇log𝑝(𝑥)
 2
𝑝(𝑥)𝑑𝑥+𝑜(ℎ 4)
≤
ℎ2𝜇2(𝐾)
2
 2 ∫ 
2(Δ𝑚(𝑥)) 2+2(2∇𝑚(𝑥)⊤∇log𝑝(𝑥)) 2

𝑝(𝑥)𝑑𝑥+𝑜(ℎ 4)
=
ℎ2𝜇2(𝐾)
2
 2
2
∫
(Δ𝑚(𝑥)) 2𝑝(𝑥)𝑑𝑥+8
∫
(∇𝑚(𝑥)⊤∇log𝑝(𝑥)) 2𝑝(𝑥)𝑑𝑥

+𝑜(ℎ 4),
where we used(𝑎+𝑏) 2≤2𝑎 2+2𝑏 2 pointwise. Since|Δ𝑚(𝑥)|≤𝐵for all𝑥, we have
∫
(Δ𝑚)2𝑝≤
∫
𝐵2𝑝=𝐵 2.
For the second term, first use Cauchy–Schwarz and then integrate against𝑝(𝑥)to obtain
(∇𝑚(𝑥)⊤∇log𝑝(𝑥)) 2≤∥∇𝑚(𝑥)∥ 2∥∇log𝑝(𝑥)∥ 2≤𝐿 2∥∇log𝑝(𝑥)∥ 2
=⇒
∫
(∇𝑚(𝑥)⊤∇log𝑝(𝑥)) 2𝑝(𝑥)𝑑𝑥≤𝐿 2
∫
∥∇log𝑝(𝑥)∥ 2𝑝(𝑥)𝑑𝑥=𝐿 2𝐽(𝑝).
which can be combined with the bounds above to obtain the desired result. We similarly have for the integrated variance
𝒱(ℎ;𝑝)=
∫ 𝑅(𝐾)
𝑛ℎ𝑑
𝑣(𝑥)
𝑝(𝑥)+𝑜
 
(𝑛ℎ𝑑)−1
𝑝(𝑥)𝑑𝑥= 𝑅(𝐾)
𝑛ℎ𝑑
∫
𝑣(𝑥)𝑑𝑥+𝑜
 
(𝑛ℎ𝑑)−1
,
which is independent of𝑝. □
B.8 Proof of lemma. 3
Proof. We first start by reminding the reader about the original Cramér-Wold theorem that is a function of all possible
directions (not unit-norm ones).
Theorem 10: Cramér-Wold Cramér and Wold [1936]
Let𝑋and𝑌be random vectors inR 𝐷:
𝑋 𝑑=𝑌⇐⇒ ⟨𝑋,𝑎⟩ 𝑑=⟨𝑌,𝑎⟩,∀𝒂∈R 𝐷.(25)
Ourproofwillfollowthesameproofasforthm.10. Necessityisimmediate: if 𝑋
𝑑
=𝑌 , theneverymeasurablefunction
of𝑋 hasthesamedistributionasthecorrespondingfunctionof 𝑌,fromwhichthelinearmapping 𝑥↦→⟨𝑢,𝑥⟩ for𝑢∈S 𝑑−1
is a special case. For sufficiency, assume⟨𝑢,𝑋⟩
𝑑
=⟨𝑢,𝑌⟩ for all𝑢∈S 𝑑−1. Let𝜑𝑋(𝑡):=E

𝑒𝑖⟨𝑡,𝑋⟩ 
and 𝜑𝑌(𝑡):=E

𝑒𝑖⟨𝑡,𝑌⟩ 
denote the characteristic functions of𝑋 and𝑌. Fix an arbitrary𝑡∈R 𝑑; if𝑡=0 , then𝜑𝑋(0)=𝜑 𝑌(0)=1 . If𝑡≠0 , write
𝑡=𝑠𝑢with𝑠:=∥𝑡∥>0and𝑢:=𝑡/∥𝑡∥∈S 𝑑−1. By the assumption,⟨𝑢,𝑋⟩
𝑑
=⟨𝑢,𝑌⟩, hence for this𝑢and𝑠we have
𝜑𝑋(𝑡)=E

𝑒𝑖⟨𝑡,𝑋⟩ 
=E

𝑒𝑖𝑠⟨𝑢,𝑋⟩ 
=E

𝑒𝑖𝑠⟨𝑢,𝑌⟩ 
=E

𝑒𝑖⟨𝑡,𝑌⟩ 
=𝜑 𝑌(𝑡).
Thus 𝜑𝑋(𝑡)=𝜑 𝑌(𝑡) for all𝑡∈R 𝑑, i.e.,𝜑𝑋≡𝜑 𝑌 on R𝑑. By the uniqueness theorem for characteristic functions, this
implies𝑋
𝑑
=𝑌 . (ii) Define𝜓𝑛,𝑡 :=E

𝑒𝑖⟨𝑡,𝑋𝑛⟩
and 𝜓𝑡 :=E

𝑒𝑖⟨𝑡,𝑋⟩ 
. Fix𝑡∈R 𝑑 and decompose𝑡=𝑠𝑢 with𝑠:=∥𝑡∥≥0
and𝑢∈S 𝑑−1 (take, e.g.,𝑢=𝑡/∥𝑡∥ if𝑡≠0 , and any𝑢 if𝑡=0 ). The map𝑔𝑠 :R→R , 𝑔𝑠(𝑥)=𝑠𝑥 , is continuous. By the
continuous mapping theorem applied to the real-valued random variables⟨𝑢,𝑋𝑛⟩
𝑑
− →⟨𝑢,𝑋⟩, we obtain
⟨𝑡,𝑋 𝑛⟩=𝑠⟨𝑢,𝑋 𝑛⟩
𝑑
− →𝑠⟨𝑢,𝑋⟩=⟨𝑡,𝑋⟩.
35

--- PAGE 36 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
Hence, for every fixed𝑡∈R 𝑑, the one-dimensional projections satisfy⟨𝑡,𝑋 𝑛⟩
𝑑
− →⟨𝑡,𝑋⟩, which in turn yields pointwise
convergence of characteristic functions:
𝜓𝑛,𝑡 =E

𝑒𝑖⟨𝑡,𝑋𝑛⟩
−→E

𝑒𝑖⟨𝑡,𝑋⟩ 
=𝜓 𝑡,for all𝑡∈R 𝑑.
Therefore, by Lévy’s continuity theorem,𝑋𝑛
𝑑
− →𝑋. This completes the proof.□
B.9 Proof of thm. 2
Proof. We first formulate the following assumptions required for the proof–all of this are satisfied by typical univariate
statistical tests.
𝑃=𝑄if and only if𝑃 𝑎 =𝑄 𝑎 for all𝑎∈𝑆 𝑑−1 (population-level equivalence of laws).
𝐴𝑛 are finite sets with meshΔ(𝐴𝑛):=sup 𝑢∈𝑆𝑑−1 min𝑎∈𝐴𝑛∥𝑢−𝑎∥→0as𝑛→∞.
If𝑃≠𝑄, there exists a separating direction𝑎★∈𝑆 𝑑−1 and a neighborhood𝑈of𝑎 ★ such that
inf
𝑎∈𝑈
lim
𝑛→∞
Pr
 
𝑇𝑎,𝑛≥𝑢 𝑛(𝛼)

=1.
(Intuitively: nearatrulyseparatingdirection,the1Dstatisticeventuallyexceedstheglobalnullthresholdwithprobability
→1.)
(i) Under𝐻0 :𝑃=𝑄 , our assumption implies no separating direction exists at the population level, and the
calibration of𝑢𝑛(𝛼) ensures Pr(𝑀𝑛≥𝑢 𝑛(𝛼))≤𝛼 for all𝑛, hencelim sup𝑛→∞ Pr(Ψ𝑛 =1)≤𝛼 . (ii) Suppose𝑃≠𝑄 . Our
assumption guarantees that there exists at least one separating direction𝑎★ with𝑃𝑎★ ≠𝑄 𝑎★. Our assumption guarantees
a neighborhood𝑈 of𝑎★ in which the projection statistics exceed the global null threshold with probability tending to 1:
inf
𝑎∈𝑈
lim
𝑛→∞
Pr
 
𝑇𝑎,𝑛≥𝑢 𝑛(𝛼)

=1.
By assumption, for all large𝑛the set𝐴𝑛 contains at least one direction𝑎𝑛∈𝑈(dense coverage). Therefore,
Pr(Ψ𝑛 =1)=Pr
 
𝑀𝑛≥𝑢 𝑛(𝛼)

≥Pr
 
𝑇𝑎𝑛,𝑛≥𝑢 𝑛(𝛼)

−→1,
which proves consistency. □
B.10 Proof of thm. 5
Proof. For each case, consider the function𝑔(𝑎) on S𝐷−1 defined by the quantity of interest (CF, CDF, or moment) at a
fixed𝑡or𝑘. Since𝑓∈𝐻 𝛼(R𝐷), the mapping𝑎↦→𝑔(𝑎)is in𝐻 𝛼(S𝐷−1)for each fixed𝑡or𝑘.
Given𝑀 samples{𝑎𝑖}𝑀
𝑖=1 on the sphere, the best possible reconstruction of𝑔 from its values at these points is given by
spherical interpolation. By classical results on Sobolev spaces and spherical harmonics (see, e.g., Narcowich et al. [2006]),
the𝐿 2 interpolation error for functions in𝐻𝛼(S𝐷−1)using𝑀points is bounded by
E𝑏

|𝑔(𝑏)−𝑔 ∗(𝑏)|2
≤𝐶(𝐷,𝛼)𝑀 −2𝛼/(𝐷−1)∥𝑔∥ 2
𝐻𝛼(S𝐷−1),
where𝑔∗ is the interpolant matching𝑔 at the𝑀 sampled points. The interpolation error bound on the sphere follows
from the theory of spherical harmonics and Marcinkiewicz–Zygmund (MZ) inequalities . Any𝑓∈𝐻 𝛼(S𝑑) admits a
spherical harmonics expansion, and the best𝐿2 approximation by harmonics of degree at most𝐿satisfies
∥𝑓−𝑃 𝐿𝑓∥𝐿2(S𝑑)≤(1+𝐿 2)−𝛼/2∥𝑓∥ 𝐻𝛼(S𝑑),
where𝑃𝐿𝑓 istheprojectionontoharmonicsofdegree ≤𝐿 [Narcowichetal.,2006,Lemma2.1]. If 𝑀 pointsaredistributed
quasi-uniformly onS𝑑, then for𝐿∼𝑐𝑀 1/𝑑, the set forms a Marcinkiewicz–Zygmund (MZ) set for degree𝐿 [Mhaskar
et al., 2001, Theorem 1.1]. This allows reconstruction of any function in the space of harmonics of degree at most𝐿 from
its values at these points, and the𝐿2 interpolation error for𝑓is bounded by
∥𝑓−𝐼 𝑀𝑓∥𝐿2(S𝑑)≤𝐶(1+𝐿 2)−𝛼/2∥𝑓∥ 𝐻𝛼(S𝑑),
36

--- PAGE 37 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
where𝐼𝑀𝑓 is any interpolant matching𝑓 at the𝑀 points [Narcowich et al., 2006, Theorem 3.1]. Substituting𝐿∼𝑐𝑀 1/𝑑
yields the rate𝑀−𝛼/𝑑, and thus
E𝜔|𝑓(𝜔)−𝐼 𝑀𝑓(𝜔)| 2≤𝐶(𝑑,𝛼)𝑀 −2𝛼/𝑑∥𝑓∥ 2
𝐻𝛼(S𝑑),
with explicit𝐶(𝑑,𝛼) as in the main theorem. Integrating (or summing) over𝑡 (for CF and CDF) or𝑘 (for moments, with
weights𝑤𝑘) yields the stated bounds. The explicit constant𝐶(𝐷,𝛼) arises from the theory of spherical Sobolev spaces
and is given above.
For the moment case, the sum over𝑘is weighted to ensure convergence, as higher moments may grow rapidly. The
weights𝑤 𝑘 can be chosen, for example, as𝑤𝑘 =1/𝑘!.
This completes the proof. □
B.11 Proof of thm. 3
Pick distinct𝑥0,...,𝑥 𝐾+1∈R and consider the linear map𝐴:R 𝐾+2→R 𝐾+1,(𝐴𝑝)𝑟 = ˝𝐾+1
𝑗=0 𝑝𝑗𝑥𝑟
𝑗 for𝑟=0,...,𝐾 . Then
rank(𝐴)≤𝐾+1 , soker(𝐴)≠{0} . Let𝑣∈ker(𝐴)\{0} ; from(𝐴𝑝) 0 = ˝
𝑗𝑝𝑗, we get˝
𝑗𝑣𝑗 =0 , hence𝑣 has positive and
negative entries. Choose a strictly positive probability vector𝑝 and𝜀 >0 small such that𝑝± :=𝑝±𝜀𝑣 remain probability
vectors. Then𝐴𝑝+=𝐴𝑝−, so the distributions supported on{𝑥𝑗} with masses𝑝± are distinct yet match moments up to
order𝐾.
B.12 Proof of thm. 4
Proof.Fix the Gaussian weight
𝑤𝑠(𝑡)=𝑒 −𝑠 2𝑡2
, 𝑠>0,
and define the population CF distance
𝐷(𝑃,𝐺)=
∫
R
𝑤𝑠(𝑡)
𝜑𝑃(𝑡)−𝜑 𝐺(𝑡)
2
𝑑𝑡.
Let the empirical CF be
b𝜑𝑁(𝑡)= 1
𝑁
𝑁Õ
𝑖=1
𝑒𝑖𝑡𝑋𝑖,
and consider the V-statistic estimator
b𝐷𝑉 =
∫
R
𝑤𝑠(𝑡)
b𝜑𝑁(𝑡)−𝜑 𝐺(𝑡)
2
𝑑𝑡.
We use only that|𝑒𝑖𝑡𝑋|=1 ,|𝜑𝑃(𝑡)|≤1 ,|𝜑𝐺(𝑡)|≤1 , and integrability of𝑤𝑠. For each𝑖 differentiate under the integral
(dominated convergence applies because the integrand and its derivative are bounded)
𝜕b𝐷𝑉
𝜕𝑋𝑖
=
∫
R
𝑤𝑠(𝑡)2ℜ
 b𝜑𝑁(𝑡)−𝜑 𝐺(𝑡)
𝜕b𝜑𝑁(𝑡)
𝜕𝑋𝑖

𝑑𝑡,
𝜕b𝜑𝑁(𝑡)
𝜕𝑋𝑖
= 1
𝑁𝑖𝑡𝑒𝑖𝑡𝑋𝑖,
since| b𝜑𝑁(𝑡)|≤1and|𝜑 𝐺(𝑡)|≤1,

𝜕b𝐷𝑉
𝜕𝑋𝑖
≤ 2
𝑁
∫
𝑤𝑠(𝑡)|𝑡|
 
|b𝜑𝑁(𝑡)|+|𝜑 𝐺(𝑡)|

𝑑𝑡
≤ 4
𝑁
∫
𝑤𝑠(𝑡)|𝑡|𝑑𝑡
= 4
𝑁𝑠 2,
37

--- PAGE 38 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
using
∫
R𝑒−𝑠 2𝑡2
|𝑡|𝑑𝑡=1/𝑠 2. 
𝜕b𝐷𝑉
𝜕𝑋𝑖
 ≤ 4
𝑁
∫
R
𝑤𝑠(𝑡)|𝑡|𝑑𝑡= 4
𝑁𝑠 2.
Moreover, differentiating once more in𝑋𝑖 and using|b𝜑𝑁(𝑡)|≤1,|𝜑 𝐺(𝑡)|≤1gives a global Lipschitz bound

𝜕2b𝐷𝑉
𝜕𝑋 2
𝑖
 ≤ 𝐶
𝑁
∫
R
𝑤𝑠(𝑡)𝑡 2𝑑𝑡= 𝐶
𝑁·
√𝜋
2𝑠 3,
for some absolute constant𝐶 arising from bounded factors and product rule. Hence ECF gradients are uniformly
bounded and Lipschitz, with scale controlled only by(𝑁,𝑠).
(B) (Moment sample-gradients are polynomial in𝑋𝑖 and unbounded for𝑘≥2 .) Let b𝐷𝑉 be as above. Define the moment
objective
b𝐷𝑘 =( ¯𝜙−𝜇) ⊤𝑊(¯𝜙−𝜇), ¯𝜙:= 1
𝑁
𝑁Õ
𝑖=1
𝜙(𝑋𝑖),𝜙(𝑥)=(𝑥,𝑥 2,...,𝑥 𝑘)⊤,
for a symmetric positive semidefinite𝑊∈R𝑘×𝑘 and Gaussian target moments𝜇=E𝐺[𝜙(𝑌)]. For each𝑖,
𝜕b𝐷𝑘
𝜕𝑋𝑖
= 2
𝑁(¯𝜙−𝜇) ⊤𝑊𝜕𝜙(𝑋𝑖)
𝜕𝑋𝑖
,
𝜕𝜙(𝑋)
𝜕𝑋 =
 
1,2𝑋,3𝑋 2,...,𝑘𝑋 𝑘−1⊤.
The gradient formula follows by the chain rule and linearity of¯𝜙. Let𝑐:=𝑊( ¯𝜙−𝜇) and write𝑐𝑟 for its𝑟-th coordinate.
Then
𝜕b𝐷𝑘
𝜕𝑋𝑖
= 2
𝑁
𝑘Õ
𝑟=1
𝑐𝑟𝑟𝑋𝑟−1
𝑖 ,
which is a polynomial in𝑋𝑖 of degreedeg=max{𝑟−1 :𝑐 𝑟 ≠0}≤𝑘−1 . In particular, if𝑐𝑘 ≠0 (the generic case when
the top-weighted deviation is nonzero), then

𝜕b𝐷𝑘
𝜕𝑋𝑖
 −−−−−→
|𝑋𝑖|→∞
∞as|𝑋 𝑖|𝑘−1.
The expression is a nonconstant polynomial in𝑋𝑖 of degreedeg≤𝑘−1 whenever some𝑐𝑟 ≠0 with𝑟≥2 . Thus the
gradient cannot be uniformly bounded onR. If𝑐𝑘 ≠0 , the leading term dominates and the magnitude grows like|𝑋𝑖|𝑘−1,
proving unboundedness for𝑘≥2. □
B.13 Proof of thm. 6
Proof. A direct calculation shows Fix𝑡∈R 𝑑 and abbreviate𝑍𝑗 B𝑒 i𝑡⊤𝑋𝑗, so that𝜙𝑛(𝑡)= 1
𝑛
˝𝑛
𝑗=1𝑍𝑗. Note that|𝑍𝑗|=1
almost surely (since𝑡⊤𝑋𝑗∈R), andE[𝑍 𝑗]=𝜙 𝜃(𝑡)for all𝑗. We start from the algebraic identity
𝜙𝑛(𝑡)−𝜓(𝑡)
2
=𝜙 𝑛(𝑡)𝜙𝑛(𝑡)−𝜓(𝑡) 𝜙𝑛(𝑡)− 𝜓(𝑡)𝜙𝑛(𝑡)+
𝜓(𝑡)
2
.
38

--- PAGE 39 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
Taking expectations term by term gives
E
h𝜙𝑛−𝜓
2i
=E

|𝜙𝑛|2
−𝜓E
h
𝜙𝑛
i
−𝜓E

𝜙𝑛

+|𝜓| 2,(26)
=E

|𝜙𝑛|2
−𝜓 E[𝜙𝑛]− 𝜓 1
𝑛
𝑛Õ
𝑗=1
E[𝑍𝑗]+|𝜓| 2,(27)
=E

|𝜙𝑛|2
−𝜓 𝜙𝜃−𝜓𝜙𝜃+|𝜓| 2,(28)
=E

|𝜙𝑛|2
−2Re
 
𝜓𝜙𝜃

+|𝜓| 2,(29)
=E


1
𝑛
𝑛Õ
𝑗=1
𝑍𝑗

2
−2Re
 
𝜓𝜙𝜃

+|𝜓| 2,(30)
= 1
𝑛2
𝑛Õ
𝑗=1
𝑛Õ
𝑙=1
E
h
𝑍𝑗𝑍𝑙
i
−2Re
 
𝜓𝜙𝜃

+|𝜓| 2,(31)
(32)
Since the𝑍𝑗 are i.i.d.,
E
h
𝑍𝑗𝑍𝑙
i
=
(
E

|𝑍1|2
=1,if𝑗=𝑙,
E[𝑍𝑗]E[𝑍𝑙]=𝜙 𝜃𝜙𝜃 =|𝜙 𝜃|2,if𝑗≠𝑙,
hence
E

|𝜙𝑛|2
= 1
𝑛2

𝑛+𝑛(𝑛−1)|𝜙 𝜃|2

= 1
𝑛+

1− 1
𝑛

|𝜙𝜃|2
=|𝜙𝜃|2+ 1−|𝜙 𝜃|2
𝑛
Plugging these, we obtain
E
h𝜙𝑛−𝜓
2i
=

|𝜙𝜃|2+ 1−|𝜙 𝜃|2
𝑛

−2Re
 
𝜓𝜙𝜃

+|𝜓| 2
=
 
|𝜙𝜃|2−2Re
 
𝜓𝜙𝜃

+|𝜓| 2
+ 1−|𝜙 𝜃|2
𝑛
=
𝜙𝜃−𝜓
2
+ 1−|𝜙 𝜃|2
𝑛 .
Under Dominated convergence,E[∇𝜃𝐷𝑛(𝑡)]=∇ 𝜃E[𝐷𝑛(𝑡)], hence
E[∇𝜃𝐷𝑛(𝑡)]=∇ 𝜃
𝜙𝜃(𝑡)−𝜓(𝑡)
2
+∇ 𝜃
1−|𝜙 𝜃(𝑡)|2
𝑛 ,
concluding the proof.
In practice one replaces
∫
R𝑤(𝑡)(·)𝑑𝑡 by a deterministic quadrature on a uniform grid𝑡𝑘∈[−𝑇,𝑇] with weights𝜔𝑘 (e.g.
trapezoidal rule) and a Gaussian window𝑤(𝑡)=𝑒 −𝛼𝑡 2
. All statements above remain valid with the integral replaced by˝
𝑘 𝜔𝑘(·):
𝐿(𝜃)≈
Õ
𝑘
𝜔𝑘
𝜙𝜃(𝑡𝑘)−𝜓(𝑡 𝑘)
2
, b𝐿𝑛(𝜃)≈
Õ
𝑘
𝜔𝑘
𝜙𝑛(𝑡𝑘)−𝜓(𝑡 𝑘)
2
,
39

--- PAGE 40 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
and the bias term becomes
Bias(𝜃)=− 1
𝑛
Õ
𝑘
𝜔𝑘∇𝜃
𝜙𝜃(𝑡𝑘)
2
.
Since the grid and weights are deterministic, they do not affect unbiasedness with respect to sampling; they only
introduce a deterministic approximation error to the target functional𝐿(𝜃).
□
B.14 Proof of VICReg’s Recovery
Proof.We prove this result in two parts.
Part I:E[X]=0Given thatE[⟨X,a⟩]=0for all unit vectorsa, and noting that⟨X,a⟩=a 𝑇X, we have:
E[a𝑇X]=0for alla∈R 𝑑 with∥a∥=1(33)
By linearity of expectation:
a𝑇E[X]=0for all unit vectorsa(34)
Let 𝝁=E[X] . We claim that𝝁=0 . Suppose, for the sake of contradiction, that𝝁≠0 . Then∥𝝁∥2 >0 . Define the unit
vector:
a∗= 𝝁
∥𝝁∥2
(35)
Sincea∗ is a unit vector, equation (33) implies:
(a∗)𝑇𝝁=0(36)
However, substituting the definition ofa∗:
(a∗)𝑇𝝁=
 𝝁
∥𝝁∥2
𝑇
𝝁= 𝝁𝑇𝝁
∥𝝁∥2
=
∥𝝁∥2
2
∥𝝁∥2
=∥𝝁∥ 2 >0(37)
This contradiction establishes that𝝁=0.
Part II:Cov(X)=I 𝑑 SinceE[X]=0, we have:
V ar(⟨X,a⟩)=E[(⟨X,a⟩) 2]=E[(a 𝑇X)2](38)
Expanding the quadratic form:
E[(a𝑇X)2]=E[a 𝑇XX𝑇a]=a 𝑇E[XX𝑇]a(39)
SinceE[X]=0, the covariance matrix isCov(X)=E[XX 𝑇]. Let𝚺=Cov(X). The variance condition gives us:
a𝑇𝚺a=1for all unit vectorsa(40)
Wenowshowthat 𝚺=I 𝑑.Step1: Diagonalentries.For 𝑖∈{1,2,...,𝑑} , lete𝑖 denotethe 𝑖-thstandardbasisvector. Setting
a=e 𝑖 in equation (40):
e𝑇
𝑖 𝚺e𝑖 =Σ 𝑖𝑖 =1(41)
Therefore, all diagonal entries of𝚺equal 1.Step 2: Off-diagonal entries.For distinct indices𝑖,𝑗∈{1,2,...,𝑑} , consider the
unit vector:
a=
e𝑖+e 𝑗
∥e𝑖+e 𝑗∥2
=
e𝑖+e 𝑗
√
2
(42)
Applying equation (40):
a𝑇𝚺a= 1
2(e𝑖+e 𝑗)𝑇𝚺(e𝑖+e 𝑗)=1(43)
40

--- PAGE 41 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
Expanding the quadratic form and using the symmetry of𝚺:
1
2(e𝑇
𝑖 𝚺e𝑖+2e𝑇
𝑖 𝚺e𝑗+e𝑇
𝑗 𝚺e𝑗)=1(44)
1
2(Σ𝑖𝑖+2Σ𝑖𝑗+Σ 𝑗𝑗)=1(45)
1
2(1+2Σ 𝑖𝑗+1)=1(46)
1+Σ 𝑖𝑗 =1(47)
Σ𝑖𝑗 =0(48)
Therefore, all off-diagonal entries of𝚺equal zero, establishing that𝚺=I𝑑.□
C Background
Foundation: The Linear Regression ModelWe start with the standard linear regression model:
y=X𝜷+𝜺
where:
•y=[𝑦 1,𝑦 2,...,𝑦 𝑛]𝑇∈R 𝑛 is the response vector
•X∈R 𝑛×𝑝 is the design matrix withX𝑖𝑗 =𝑥 𝑖𝑗
•𝜷=[𝛽 1,𝛽 2,...,𝛽 𝑝]𝑇∈R 𝑝 is the parameter vector
•𝜺=[𝜀 1,𝜀 2,...,𝜀 𝑛]𝑇∼𝒩(0,𝜎 2I𝑛)is the error vector
The error assumption means:
E[𝜀𝑖]=0,Var(𝜀 𝑖)=𝜎 2,Cov(𝜀 𝑖,𝜀 𝑗)=0for𝑖≠𝑗
Step 1: Deriving the OLS EstimatorTo find the OLS estimator, we minimize the sum of squared residuals:
SSR(𝜷)=
𝑛Õ
𝑖=1
(𝑦𝑖−x𝑇
𝑖 𝜷)2=(y−X𝜷) 𝑇(y−X𝜷)
Expanding this quadratic form:
SSR(𝜷)=y 𝑇y−2𝜷 𝑇X𝑇y+𝜷 𝑇X𝑇X𝜷(49)
Taking the derivative with respect to𝜷:
𝜕SSR
𝜕𝜷 =−2X 𝑇y+2X 𝑇X𝜷
Setting equal to zero and solving:
−2X𝑇y+2X 𝑇X𝜷=0
X𝑇X𝜷=X 𝑇y
AssumingX𝑇Xis invertible:
ˆ𝜷=(X 𝑇X)−1X𝑇y
D Details on Low-Discrepancy Sequences
Quasi-Monte Carlo (QMC) methods, such as the Sobol sequence, are widely used to generate low-discrepancy samples
in the unit hypercube, providing improved uniformity over purely random sampling. To obtain samples uniformly
distributed on the hypersphere, each QMC point is mapped to a standard normal vector via the inverse cumulative
41

--- PAGE 42 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
25 50 75 100 125 150 175
Number of directions M
□100
□50
0
50
100
150
200
250
C(d, α) ·M □2α/d (log scale)
Decay of Error Bound Constant vs. Number of Directions (D=5)
α=1
α=21
α=41
α=61
α=81
α=101
α=121
α=141
α=161
α=181
Figure 15.Depiction of the expected BCS loss upper bound (thm. 5) for various smoothness values𝛼. We clearly see that as the
smoothness increases (blue to red), as the upper bound decreases more and more rapidly with𝑀.
Table 3.Performance metrics across different sample sizes from Figure 12
Freeze Backbone Model Name Samples per Class
All 1 2 5 10 100 1000
No
LeJEPA (Ours)
ConvNeXt-V2 Nano 82.7229.42 36.65 50.94 59.85 75.3481.97
LeViT-128 79.41 18.45 24.08 33.11 41.76 64.59 77.59
ResNet-18 82.15 23.34 31.56 43.82 54.64 73.53 81.41
ResNet-3483.2824.27 31.51 44.23 53.95 74.9382.32
Baselines
DINOv2 Small 78.34 21.05 21.71 30.33 36.23 60.81 75.55
DINOv3 ViT-S/16 81.60 24.71 29.43 37.71 44.71 69.87 80.54
Yes
LeJEPA (Ours)
ConvNeXt-V2 Nano 76.52 28.74 36.65 50.60 59.50 72.62 77.24
LeViT-128 69.00 25.85 33.30 45.52 52.43 64.37 69.39
ResNet-18 75.95 30.48 38.22 50.85 58.86 72.70 76.39
ResNet-3478.17 31.08 38.33 52.26 60.63 74.77 78.62
Baselines
DINOv2 Small 67.62 27.68 32.22 40.72 47.72 62.49 67.89
DINOv3 ViT-S/16 71.38 30.17 36.65 45.74 51.51 65.90 71.35
Table 4.Top 1 accuracy (in %) with LeJEPA pretraining on Imagenet-100 for 400 epochs (All values are percentages)
backbone resnet50 vit_small_patch8_224 vit_tiny_patch8_224
Projector 1-layer 2-layer 3-layer 1-layer 2-layer 3-layer 1-layer 2-layer 3-layer
w/ predictor w/ SWA
False False 79.71 82.44 83.93 76.59 80.77 81.07 71.79 76.87 80.37
True 79.79 82.69 83.50 79.96 83.63 84.12 75.86 82.36 80.50
True False 79.41 82.44 83.57 77.58 79.41 81.91 67.74 77.64 80.73
True 78.87 82.04 82.82 77.11 81.77 82.58 69.53 78.27 79.77
distributionfunction(CDF),andthenprojectedontothespherebynormalization. Thisapproachleveragestherotational
invariance of the multivariate normal distribution, ensuring that the resulting directions are uniformly distributed on
42

--- PAGE 43 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
Table 5.Small architecture in-domain LeJEPA pretrainingfrom random initialization across datasets and architectures, with frozen backbone
linear evaluation. First,LeJEPA is able to produce near state-of-the-art performances on tiny dataset with only a thousand samples, e.g., flowers102.
Second,on non-natural image data, LeJEPA clearly outperforms the latest frontier vision models, e.g., Galaxy10. See Figure 12 for additional
experiments with varying number of training samples and with full finetuning.
Pretraining flowers102 cifar100 food101 inet10 cifar10 galaxy10
# train. samples 1020 50000 75750 13000 50000 11008
LeJEPA (convnextv2_nano) 14M in-domain 64.34 69.26 69.59 90.81 92.22 76.05
LeJEPA (resnet18) 11M in-domain 74.57 69.94 73.57 92.36 92.51 75.32
LeJEPA (resnet34) 21M in-domain 71.85 70.44 74.95 92.80 93.16 77.29
LeJEPA (resnext26ts) 8M in-domain 82.19 69.10 76.77 92.82 91.59 73.78
LeJEPA (swin_tiny) 27M in-domain 63.94 65.08 78.40 92.87 92.67 74.89
ĲEPA-inet22k (ViT-H/14) 630M inet1k 85.76 86.93 81.06 98.65 97.77 62.93
Table 6.Time (in millisecond) to compute the proposed SIGReg loss from algorithm 1 on a Tesla V100-SXM2-16GB for varying mini-batch size (𝑁),
number of slices (𝑀), integration points. Results are computed over10runs.
N M # integration
points mean (ms) std (ms)
512 512 16 0.465236 0.011642
512 512 64 0.461317 0.003894
512 512 256 0.627644 0.003337
2048 512 16 1.406441 0.002415
8192 512 16 6.188304 0.007226
8192 8192 16 8.685009 0.038829
32768 512 16 26.373118 0.012732
512 2048 16 0.465614 0.005274
512 8192 16 0.670379 0.006854
Table 7.Number of Figure 8.
resnet50
𝜆0.001 0.005 0.010 0.020 0.025 0.050 0.100 0.150 0.200 0.300 0.400 0.500
#views
2 81.41 82.73 83.49 82.99 82.23 - - - - - - -
4 79.88 83.04 84.36 84.68 84.33 83.00 82.91 81.05 78.58 - - -
8 76.67 81.58 83.59 83.49 83.76 84.32 83.66 83.07 82.16 81.00 79.25 77.72
the sphere’s surface. While the low-discrepancy property is not strictly preserved under this nonlinear mapping, the
resultingsamplesareempiricallymoreuniformthanrandomsamplesandarestandardinhigh-dimensionalapplications
Marsaglia [1972], Dick and Pillichshammer [2010], Caflisch [1998].
Require:Number of points𝑁, dimension𝑑
Ensure:Points{y 𝑖}𝑁
𝑖=1 quasi-uniformly distributed onS𝑑−1
1:for𝑖=1to𝑁do
2:Generatex 𝑖∈[0,1] 𝑑 as the𝑖-th point of a Sobol sequence
3:Transform each component:𝑧 𝑖,𝑗 =Φ−1(𝑥𝑖,𝑗)for𝑗=1,...,𝑑⊲Φ −1 is the inverse CDF of the standard normal
4:Normalize:y 𝑖 =z 𝑖/∥z𝑖∥2
5:end for
E Shapiro-Wilk Test
Let X1 < X2 < . . . < Xn denote an ordered random sample of size n from a standard normal distribution. Also, let mÂ 5
(m1,m2,...,mn) be the vector of expected values of standard normal order statistics, and let V 5 (vĳ ) be the corresponding
43

--- PAGE 44 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
n 3 n covariance matrix, so that
𝐸(𝑋𝑖)=𝑚 𝑖 andcov
 
𝑋𝑖,𝑋 𝑗

=𝑣 𝑖𝑗, 𝑖,𝑗=1,2,...,𝑛(50)
The W test statistic Shapiro and Wilk [1965] for normality is then denoted by
𝑊= (
˝𝑛
𝑖=1𝑎𝑖𝑌𝑖)
˝𝑛
𝑖=1(𝑌𝑖−¯𝑌)
2 = (aY)
𝑆2
a′=(𝑎1,𝑎 2,...,𝑎 𝑛)=mV−1  
mV−1V−1m
−1/2
S2= ˝𝑛
𝑖=1
 
𝑌𝑖−¯𝑌
 2
(51)
Shapiro and Francia [1972] suggested replacing the covariance matrix V by the identity matrix I, because for large
samples, the observations Yi may be treated as if they are independent (see Gupta [1952]). Another asymptotic extension
was suggested by Weisburg and Binham [1975]
𝐸(𝑋𝑖)=𝑚 𝑖≈Φ−1
 
𝑖− 3
8
𝑛+ 1
4
!
𝑖=1,2,...,𝑛(52)
building atop Elfving [1947]’s approximation but using3/8instead of𝜋/8.
Rahman and Govindarajulu [1997] proposed another variation using the approximation for the expected values of
order statistics given by Blom [1958] and the approximations for the elements of the variance±covariance matrix given
by Blom [1958], Mosteller [2006]. These approximations are
𝐸(𝑋𝑖)=𝑚 𝑖≈Φ−1

𝑖
𝑁+1

, 𝑖=1,2,...,𝑛(53)
cov
 
𝑋𝑖,𝑋 𝑗

=𝑣 𝑖𝑗≈
𝑝𝑖𝑝𝑗
(𝑛+2)𝑓 (𝑚𝑖) 𝑓
 
𝑚𝑗
, 𝑖,𝑗=1,2,...,𝑛(54)
𝑝𝑖 = 𝑖
𝑛+1 (55)
We know (see Hammersley and Morton [1954], Plackett [1958])
V−1=(𝑛+1)(𝑛+2)
×
'››››››
«
2𝜙2(𝑚1) −𝜙(𝑚1)𝜙(𝑚2) 0 0...0
−𝜙(𝑚1)𝜙(𝑚2) 2𝜙2(𝑚2) −𝜙(𝑚2)𝜙(𝑚3) 0...0
0−𝜙 (𝑚2)𝜙(𝑚3) 2𝜙2(𝑚3) −𝜙(𝑚3)𝜙(𝑚4) ...0
...
0 0 0 0...2𝜙 2(𝑚𝑛)
“ﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁ
‹
(56)
F Multivariate Statistics
We ideally would like to compare the distributions. One slight variation is to compare the Characteristic function of the
distributions. Given samples𝒙1,...,𝒙 𝑁, the Empirical Characteristic Function (ECF) is defined as
ˆ𝜓𝑁(𝒕)= 1
𝑁
𝑁Õ
𝑛=1
𝑒−𝑖𝒕⊤𝒚𝑛.
We can now compare our ECF to the one of the target distribution and build the statistic
𝑁
∫
|ˆ𝜓𝑁(𝒕)−𝜓 0(𝒕)| 2𝜔(𝒕)𝑑𝑡=𝑁
∫
|ˆ𝜓𝑁(𝒕)−𝑒 −∥𝒕∥ 2/2|2𝜔(𝒕)𝑑𝑡,
44

--- PAGE 45 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
if the weighting function is given by𝜔(𝒕)=(2𝜋𝛽2)−𝑑/2𝑒−
∥𝒕∥2
2
2 then the following simplification can be made
BHEP𝑛,𝛽 = 1
𝑛
𝑛Õ
𝑗,𝑘=1
exp
 
−
𝛽2 𝑌𝑛,𝑗−𝑌𝑛,𝑘
2
2
!
− 2
 
1+𝛽 2𝑑/2
𝑛Õ
𝑗=1
exp
 
−
𝛽2 𝑌𝑛,𝑗
2
2
 
1+𝛽 2
!
+ 𝑛
 
1+2𝛽 2𝑑/2.
with𝛽 >0, Baringhaus-Henze-Epps-Pulley. From1 leading to the HZ test2 uses
𝛽𝑛 =2−1/2((2𝑑+1)𝑛/4) 1/(𝑑+4) (57)
the same can be done with the moment generating function3
𝑇𝑛,𝛽 =𝜋 𝑑/2 '›
«
1
𝑛
𝑛Õ
𝑖,𝑗=1
1
𝛽𝑑/2 exp
 𝑌𝑛,𝑖+𝑌𝑛,𝑗
2
4𝛽
!
+ 𝑛
(𝛽−1) 𝑑/2
−2
𝑛Õ
𝑗=1
1
(𝛽−1/2) 𝑑/2 exp
 𝑌𝑛,𝑗
2
4𝛽−2
!
“ﬁ
‹
,
here with𝛽 >2
There is also one combining both4!
𝑇𝑛,𝛾 :=
∫
R𝑑𝑈 2
𝑛(𝑡)𝑤𝛾(𝑡)d𝑡
𝑈𝑛(𝑡):= √𝑛(𝑅𝑛(𝑡)𝑀𝑛(𝑡)−1) (58)
𝑇𝑛,𝛾 =

𝜋
𝛾
𝑑/2
 

1
2𝑛3
𝑛Õ
𝑗,𝑘,𝑙,𝑚=1

exp
'››
«
𝑌+
𝑗𝑘

2
−
𝑌−
ℓ𝑚
2
4𝛾
“ﬁﬁ
‹
cos
 𝑌+⊤
𝑗𝑘 𝑌−
ℓ𝑚
2𝛾
!
+exp
'››
«
𝑌+
𝑗𝑘

2
−
𝑌+
ℓ𝑚
2
4𝛾
“ﬁﬁ
‹
cos
 𝑌+⊤
𝑗𝑘 𝑌+
ℓ𝑚
2𝛾
!
− 2
𝑛
𝑛Õ
𝑗,𝑘=1
exp
 𝑌𝑛,𝑗
2
−
𝑌𝑛,𝑘
2
4𝛾
!
cos
 𝑌⊤
𝑛,𝑗𝑌𝑛,𝑘
2𝛾
!
+𝑛
 

,
(59)
and its simplified version
e𝑇𝑛,𝛾 :=
∫
R𝑑
𝑈𝑛(𝑡)𝑤𝛾(𝑡)d𝑡.(60)
e𝑇𝑛,𝛾 =

𝜋
𝛾
𝑑/2√
𝑛 '›
«
1
𝑛2
𝑛Õ
𝑗,𝑘=1
exp
 𝑌𝑛,𝑗
2
−
𝑌𝑛,𝑘
2
4𝛾
!
cos
 𝑌⊤
𝑛,𝑗𝑌𝑛,𝑘
2𝛾
!
−1 “ﬁ
‹
(61)
Also one testing the derivative5
HV𝑛,𝛾 :=𝑛
∫
∥∇𝑀𝑛(𝑡)−𝑡𝑀 𝑛(𝑡)∥2 e𝑤𝛾(𝑡)d𝑡(62)
1https://www.routledge.com/Density-Estimation-for-Statistics-and-Data-Analysis/Silverman/p/book/9780412246203?srsltid=
AfmBOoodlL-CtlqL0JVC-LcP6mOWw6VTt51_YstdZOW4W3iuicu1VFyg
2https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/03610929008830400
3https://arxiv.org/pdf/1711.07199
4https://arxiv.org/pdf/1706.03029
5https://arxiv.org/pdf/1901.03986
45

--- PAGE 46 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
HV𝑛,𝛾 = 1
𝑛

𝜋
𝛾
𝑑/2 𝑛Õ
𝑗,𝑘=1
exp
'››
«
𝑌+
𝑛,𝑗,𝑘

2
4𝛾
“ﬁﬁ
‹
'››
«
𝑌⊤
𝑛,𝑗𝑌𝑛,𝑘−
𝑌+
𝑛,𝑗,𝑘

2
2𝛾 + 𝑑
2𝛾+
𝑌+
𝑛,𝑗,𝑘

2
4𝛾2
“ﬁﬁ
‹
.(63)
skewness 6:
𝑏1,𝑑 = 1
𝑛2
𝑛Õ
𝑗,𝑘=1

𝑌⊤
𝑛,𝑗𝑌𝑛,𝑘
 3
(64)
skewness 7:
e𝑏1,𝑑 = 1
𝑛2
𝑛Õ
𝑗,𝑘=1
𝑌⊤
𝑛,𝑗𝑌𝑛,𝑘
𝑌𝑛,𝑗
2 𝑌𝑛,𝑘
2
(65)
which should be 0 for Gaussian and Kurtosis which should be d(d+2)
𝑏2,𝑑 = 1
𝑛
𝑛Õ
𝑗=1
𝑌𝑛,𝑗
4
(66)
6https://www.jstor.org/stable/2334770
7https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s13171-020-00211-6
46

--- PAGE 47 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
dimension=128, slices=10
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 1
□2
0
2
dim 2
original data
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 1
VCReg
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 1
ExtendedJarqueBera
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 1
CramerVonMises
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 1
Watson
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 1
AndersonDarling
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 1
EppsPulley
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 3
□2
0
2
dim 4
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 3
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 3
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 3
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 3
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 3
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 3
dimension=128, slices=100
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 1
□2
0
2
dim 2
original data
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 1
VCReg
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 1
ExtendedJarqueBera
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 1
CramerVonMises
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 1
Watson
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 1
AndersonDarling
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 1
EppsPulley
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 3
□2
0
2
dim 4
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 3
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 3
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 3
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 3
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 3
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 3
dimension=1024, slices=100
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 1
□4
□2
0
2
4
dim 2
original data
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 1
VCReg
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 1
ExtendedJarqueBera
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 1
CramerVonMises
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 1
Watson
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 1
AndersonDarling
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 1
EppsPulley
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 3
□2
0
2
dim 4
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 3
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 3
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 3
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 3
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 3
□2.5 0.0 2.5
dim 3
Figure 16.Reprise of Figure 6 for additional dimensions and number of 1d projections.
47

--- PAGE 48 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
β2
Isotropic
True β
0.5 1.0 1.5
β1
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
β2
0.5 1.0 1.5
β1
0.5 1.0 1.5
β1
0.5 1.0 1.5
β1
Distribution of Estimator ˆβ (Binary Y) (Normalized)
□0.30
□0.25
□0.20
□0.15
□0.10
β2
Isotropic
True β
□1.05 □1.00 □0.95 □0.90
β1
□0.30
□0.25
□0.20
□0.15
□0.10
β2
□1.05 □1.00 □0.95 □0.90
β1
□1.05 □1.00 □0.95 □0.90
β1
□1.05 □1.00 □0.95 □0.90
β1
Distribution of Estimator ˆβ (Linear Y)
Figure 17.Depiction of the distribution of optimized𝛽 values from OLS when comparing𝒁iso and 𝒁aniso from lemmas. 1 and 2. We clearly observe
that the anisotropic version (blue) provides much lower variance compared to the isotropic case (red). We consider a binary classification (linear
separable class) (top row), a linear regression task (middle row), and a nonlinear regression task with smooth targets (bottom row). For each case, we
resample the training samples numerous times and produce an estimate for𝛽 each time. Because the data is2-dimensional, we can visualize the𝛽
distribution directly.
48

--- PAGE 49 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
10□4 10□3 10□2 10□1 100 101 102
Regularization λ
0.90
0.92
0.94
0.96
0.98
Test Accuracy
Test Accuracy vs Regularization ( N = 50, Linear Classiﬁcation)
Isotropic (κ = 1)
Anisotropic (κ = 5)
Anisotropic (κ = 10)
Anisotropic (κ = 50)
10□4 10□3 10□2 10□1 100 101 102
Regularization λ
0.90
0.92
0.94
0.96
0.98
1.00
Test Accuracy
Test Accuracy vs Regularization ( N = 200, Linear Classiﬁcation)
Isotropic (κ = 1)
Anisotropic (κ = 5)
Anisotropic (κ = 10)
Anisotropic (κ = 50)
10□4 10□3 10□2 10□1 100 101 102
Regularization λ
0.94
0.95
0.96
0.97
0.98
0.99
1.00
Test Accuracy
Test Accuracy vs Regularization ( N = 1000, Linear Classiﬁcation)
Isotropic (κ = 1)
Anisotropic (κ = 5)
Anisotropic (κ = 10)
Anisotropic (κ = 50)
10□4 10□3 10□2 10□1 100 101 102
Regularization λ
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
E [cos( ˆw, w∗)]
Directional Alignment vs Regularization ( N = 50, Linear Regression)
Isotropic (κ = 1)
Anisotropic (κ = 5)
Anisotropic (κ = 10)
Anisotropic (κ = 50)
10□4 10□3 10□2 10□1 100 101 102
Regularization λ
0.75
0.80
0.85
0.90
0.95
1.00
E [cos( ˆw, w∗)]
Directional Alignment vs Regularization ( N = 200, Linear Regression)
Isotropic (κ = 1)
Anisotropic (κ = 5)
Anisotropic (κ = 10)
Anisotropic (κ = 50)
10□4 10□3 10□2 10□1 100 101 102
Regularization λ
0.90
0.92
0.94
0.96
0.98
1.00
E [cos( ˆw, w∗)]
Directional Alignment vs Regularization ( N = 1000, Linear Regression)
Isotropic (κ = 1)
Anisotropic (κ = 5)
Anisotropic (κ = 10)
Anisotropic (κ = 50)
Figure 18.Depiction of accuracy (top) and cosine similarity between estimated and true estimator (bottom) for the OLS setting with varying
strength of Tikhonov regularization (x-axis)comparing isotropic and anisotropic embeddings. As per thm. 6, the anisotropic distribution creates a bias
in the OLS estimation for nonzero regularization.
20 40 60 80
Test acc. (%)
100
101
Train loss (log-scale)
Spearman corr.: 98.53% (resnet50 galaxy10)
λ
0.04
0.08
0.12
0.16
0.20
40 60 80
Test acc. (%)
100
101
Train loss (log-scale)
Spearman corr.: 99.16% (resnet50 inet10)
λ
0.04
0.08
0.12
0.16
0.20
0 20 40 60
Test acc. (%)
100
101
Train loss (log-scale)
Spearman corr.: 94.52% (ViT/base-8 inet1k)
λ
0.04
0.08
0.12
0.16
0.20
20 40 60 80
Test acc. (%)
100
101
Train loss (log-scale)
Spearman corr.: 97.63% (ViT/s-8 galaxy10)
λ
0.04
0.08
0.12
0.16
0.20
20 40 60 80
Test acc. (%)
100
101
102
Train loss (log-scale)
Spearman corr.: 97.97% (ViT/s-8 inet10)
λ
0.04
0.08
0.12
0.16
0.20
20 40 60
Test acc. (%)
100
Train loss (log-scale)
Spearman corr.: 93.82% (resnet18 ﬂowers102)
λ
0.01
0.02
0.05
0.1
0.2
Figure 19.Additional figures provides in Figure 19
49

--- PAGE 50 ---
LeJEPA:
Sec 1: Intro | Sec 2: Background | Sec 3: Why Gaussian? | Sec 4: SIGReg | Sec 5: LeJEPA | Sec 6: Experiments
20 40 60 80 100
Number of quadrature points
10□6
10□5
10□4
10□3
10□2
10□1
Absolute error |ˆTn □ Ttrue|
N (0, 1)
Trapezoid (Ttrue = 1.94)
20 40 60 80 100
Number of quadrature points
10□1
100
101
102
103
0.5N (□2, 0.52) + 0.5N (2, 0.52)
Trapezoid (Ttrue = 55109.93)
20 40 60 80 100
Number of quadrature points
10□3
10□2
10□1
100
101
102
103
Student-t (ν = 3)
Trapezoid (Ttrue = 925.27)
Figure 20.Proposed trapezoid quadrature for the Epps-Pulley statistic as implemented in algorithm 1. We depict the approximation error of the
integral for various distributions, demonstrate rapid convergence (faster than quadratic show ingrey line) across possible embedding distributions.
100 101
SIGReg loss (log-scale)
10□1
100
101
Pred. loss (log-scale)
ViT/s-8 - galaxy10
10.00
27.47
44.94
62.41
79.88
Accuracy
101
SIGReg loss (log-scale)
10□1
100
101
Pred. loss (log-scale)
ViT/s-8 - inet10
10.00
30.69
51.38
72.08
92.77
Accuracy
101
SIGReg loss (log-scale)
10□1
100
Pred. loss (log-scale)
resnet18 - ﬂowers102
11.07
26.35
41.63
56.90
72.18
Accuracy
Figure 21.Additional figures for Figure 10.
50

